welcome Obi we're doing our livestream
for April and we're gonna go ahead and
get start with questions almost right
away so as we get into these go ahead
and post yours in the chat window and
the mods will come by and grab them as
usual and get them post out to me so I
can see them while we're waiting for
those to get in there though let's go
with the schedule real quick and we'll
also take a couple questions from
Facebook that we have ready to go this
last week obviously with Matt Rios
krischell boards and the Saudi out of
time bonus episode post-apocalyptic
civilizations which was supposed to come
out last Sunday but got delayed for
Easter and then this coming week we have
a black hole ships episode and you'll be
able to see the schedule you know Midway
up on the left-hand corner of your
screen as we go let's go and get star
with the questions we have one from
Lucas says do you consider your channel
to be a good guide for aspiring sci-fi
authors what audience do you have in
mind when you sit down to write a script
we have you know our target audience is
kind of a sci-fi and science crowd we
never really try to go away from the
science angle these things but we do
always try to premise everything from a
sci-fi angle and the original episode
was actually with sci-fi authors in mind
just because at the time I was part of a
UH what what building could on face book
and the there was a 10 C to repeat
everything with like this is the classic
clich√© space off a planet that's you
know it doesn't want ice play and that's
all of it is one city and we still
looking at make a structural it's kind
of the channel that started with the
intent of saying look to other options
and science fiction you can use though
more realistic and in the very least
give you more writing options and so to
a degree almost every question almost
every episode does have authors in mind
for as kind of a base a spine are those
existing our thought was of course
they're all our them involved in the
group and and the production crew
metal but fundamentally we all a science
Channel
I was have a question from me Joe he
asks what games do you like to play and
I suppose that one comes up a lot as I'm
gonna espy if I played this oh if I play
that I am always way behind on video
games I tend to play things that will
come out in the mid-2000s like I think I
was playing solar storm Dawn of War last
night so I'm usually behind the call of
an upcoming science science fiction
games
Sebastian Thank You Sebastian ass
without nanotech given how hard it is to
make microchips how big would a von
Neumann probe need to be so for
self-application using land of mastoids
hmm that's really hard to say I I think
the minimum size isn't really limited by
the size of the computer you know you're
not really suddenly a data storage issue
when we talk about things like that
our real limitation is on things like
how much radiation shielding do you need
in terms of thickness to get through
space and that doesn't just scale down
neutralizing if you need a meter of
shielding you need a meter of shielding
and in fact we are doing things are very
micro sized you know things don't print
it out the atomic scale you can't let
any radiation get in there it's going to
start changing your data because they're
just atom sized bits at that point so
you actually need more shielding so
generally speaking any ship isn't gonna
have any real reason to mean less than a
few meters across and more if it's going
a lot faster what's going it ultra
relativistic speeds and you know the
computer inside it was the size of a
pinhead it still has to be that big we
have a question from Winton Ashley what
do you think school what do you think
the future of gaming might be I think
that's always hard to say vote reality
is gonna be the big one
um there's a resolution limits and you
know for me the graphics angle ball it's
always nice is never the top angle it's
really more about how the game is being
designed so I think that we will start
see a kind of a maximum with that and
the not-too-distant future for things
like screen resolution that's only a
very small part
of game graphics themselves but at that
point I think you all gonna start to
kind of plateau out and we'll see a
shift only the vo in terms of higher
resolution or processing power
GT cat GT cat fast car but you guys have
strange usernames how would you go from
zero subscribers to over 300,000
subscribers to just over three years I
think it was actually about three and a
half year was forwarded that though
kinda depends on when you say the
channel started I was talking about that
first episode couple minutes ago and
there was a four month gap I did a
second episode and a few more months gap
before I did another and I think we only
did like twelve episodes in the first
twenty months but at that point in time
I guess it's just content and how often
people want to see the video as much as
start doing weekly we start growing and
we can't go into what we were doing by
then so I like to think you know if you
make a good show people want to watch
and if you don't then you know patience
you'll improve with time so y'all gonna
ask how likely or reasonable do you
think it is for civilizations that has
outgrown conceded keep from doing some
jobs by automation just given humans
something to do that isn't strictly
artisanal this guy above I probably take
issue of the outgrow currency thing that
is kind of assuming that we would not
use codes in the future and I was
thinking the example from Star Trek how
they say they don't have money but then
proceeded to use money all the time
especially on Deep Space nine but I mean
the general notion being a post-scarcity
civilization you've got so much
automation going on that nobody really
needs to have what we think was
nine-to-five job um and of course with
more advanced AI you might not even need
people for the more creative tasks like
writing books or producing movies and I
you could go to Vout where you were just
giving people make walk a very small day
I might decide to play a game where it
pretends that it has things it cannot do
so that humans don't feel useless I say
oh well I'm very small if I have no
creative skills at all you know could
you guys write books even though it's
quite capable of letting master
well we know but that's one of those
things where I think every civilizations
got to do that differently because
that's gonna have an existential dread
and purpose thing and we did look at
that in post-scarcity and purpose in
more detail on olympus books asked do
you think humanity will ever be
completely both post biological I don't
think every human will ever be
completely post post biological at least
not for such a timeframe that it became
a bit of a meaningless concept I mean
you can't really talk about species
continuity even with like genetic
control as for billions of years
but you always gonna have people who
would not be comfortable with that I
don't know if they'd be the majority or
if they'd be a small minority but they
there should always be people who I
think would last stick to a straight
biological template let alone something
completely digital I think a lot of
people would hesitate on that and all
right
almost rimless are you of the opinion
that life is ultra rare or intelligent
life is ultra male or in fact both I
don't have an official opinion on it
because we don't have data to back it up
you know right now we have one planet so
with all the life intelligent or
otherwise on it my gut feeling is that
life would turn out to be fairly common
but that we will not see intelligent
life after or at least technological
life we do it to keep my took us a long
time to go from basically things like
fire or bows and arrows to actually do
any real technology most of human
existence we have basically just had
file so there could be plants out there
that have Mars the advanced intelligent
civilizations that just never really
embraced technology but my gut says that
intelligence in general will turn out to
be real but we'll have to see it's been
out there in might turn out that life is
incredibly rare actually which line that
with quantum computing on was did an
interview with CBS the other day and one
of things we'd like to be able to do
with that is do abiogenesis calculations
because the biochemistry we talked about
how it's you know must have come from
this or that place you're deep trenches
or tidal pools and we don't actually
know nor do we know what really happened
to
cause that to come into existence so
until we can model that we really can't
say and quantum computing does offer us
some opportunities to look at that in
more detail card master asks do you
think that VR will have more
applications than entertainment in the
future what are the most outlandish
usages you can come up with you know I
think the most extreme one you probably
use would be what you're actually using
is essentially a crush to raise your
kids in um if you have a really high
tech society that's really post scarcity
you might want to make sure your
children are being exposed to dangers
and not necessarily extreme trauma but
you know hardship so they're not spoiled
useless layabouts but you want to make
sure they're safe and you don't really
want to be send them out to some camps
somewhere where they intentionally
expose them to dangerous so we all might
be very common way to raise people and
in fact that's one of the things where
you useful ancestor simulations for
whether or not we live in a simulation
is that maybe that's what happens people
keep repeating the 20th and 21st century
on over again because everyone is
technologically advanced enough to kind
of absorb the idea of simulation so they
wouldn't be completely shocked if they
found out they were in one but still far
enough back to there's hardships and
that it's not going to do it something
they immediate guess is oh I'm in a
simulation but there's a lot of
applications anytime that you could
create a simulated ward and it'd be
advantageous before entertainment or
otherwise you would expect someone to do
that at a mass would it be feasible to
cool orbital fission reactors by simply
surrounding them in large jackets and
Waddle to a limited degree the issue is
that when you heat something up it takes
quite a while for the heat to move from
where it's being generated at to an
outside area that could cool and so
you're always gonna want some active
cooling and you could build a device
with no moving pulse that moved water
around to cool things but it still has
to move it to some sort of antenna where
it can dissipate that heat and the
bigger you want that the because those
pipes have to be in the faster flow rate
time traveler from the past SAS would
you ever be willing to do a video
debunking things you find on YouTube
that are incorrect in your field
probably not um you know that could need
to be such a touchy issue for someone's
gonna be really obvious I mean if
someone puts out a video on why the
authors actually fly it excluding us
since we did do a video that's you know
I don't think I need to debunk that
whereas a lot of things it's gonna be
kind of controversial just gonna cause
bad feelings this channel doesn't exist
to tell people what's wrong it's here to
introduce them to scientific concepts
and futurist ideas so other people can
do rebuttal videos or Corrections I tend
to avoid things like that myself Peter
asks what would be what would be your
top quality of life breakthrough you
would like to see in the next decade
life extension I mean you know the idea
of slowing aging and all the associated
problematic things we have with health
for that to me it is kind of the
ultimate quality of life improve all the
meaning that helps with that in which we
like cancer treatment that would be the
biggest one short term it just improves
quality of life and there's a good
technological breakthrough it has huge
effects on civilization to to start
extending people's lives which we
discussed an ad nauseam I think in some
other episodes Janna gasps what is your
opinion of the FTL of Warhammer 40k the
war what you think is the most likely
FTL assist type from pop culture I don't
think there's any likely FTL systems
period I and I I stress that point
enough there are things on math that you
could do and there's always possibility
of new new science coming out or the
possibility something that we only can
do on paper could turn out to walk up it
sound like negative matter but I really
just don't see fashion I travel have all
been codes and it just introduces too
many crazy options like time travel you
could do some limited voyages that where
you're warping space-time locally to
shore in a distance but by and large I
know that you're gonna have the kind of
FTL people look at as for Warhammer 40k
is the warp I I always like the notion
in fiction where if you are going to go
faster light or go to other parallel
realities or turn out to be a an
untoward they are 40k is you know
obviously not a hard science fiction
although they do have some place where
they tend to get better than some of the
actual hard sci-fi
fond of the the setting but it's not a
realistic portrayal of size to be sure
number jackass Isaac what do you think
the future of eyeglasses and sunglasses
will be like it depends on how much we
can miniaturize things like LEDs no LCD
displays in augmented reality where you
could see on your glasses you know that
your tips notifications things like that
would be a pretty big deal pick on the
same for sunglasses you'd want something
that was more reactive that could kind
of come in and block light when we do
have things that we act to UV for
instance but if you're warned the
sunglasses that get dark when you're out
in the Sun they don't do anything less
those UV light so you mean a very bright
room and it's not gonna help you sir
just improvements of that type in the
near future but then obviously the
ability to put a TV screen and they want
a contact lens a big game changer and
then more in a launch home you might
start to do things directly into the
optic nerves
Jim Whitehead asks is there a small
chance to comment amumu is a cleverly
disguised robot probe an alien race
might not want to announce itself and
its bulk skin might have huge solar
cells and cameras etc I don't think
there's any chance that it is an alien
probe if you try to hide something they
didn't do a very good job you know you
don't Sun dive with a large object like
that if you just want to hide the only
things that make sense for it being a
probe is if it's a broken probe and that
only the sense that you can now have
things that don't make sense about the
design so you can say oh well it has
some artificial ish characteristics
maybe kind of sort of but it lacks all
the ones that we'd expect so maybe it's
got them but it had them until they're
broken I think that's probably a bad
approach to to trying to book your way
through these things it's kind like with
tabby stall when people say well maybe
it's not a Dyson swarm but it's a post
the destroyed one it's one that started
falling apart I say okay it's a it's a
broken example so where all the non
broken examples
you can't rule it out but I think
anytime you start to just begin the
thought stream by saying this is
artificial if it's broken I think you
got a problem
Ian Cudmore asks if constructing space
habitats is possible then regardless of
whether FTL is possible or not that
seems to me that there was never a
logical reason for alien invasions what
are your thoughts you always have a
motivation for an alien invasion because
they could be invading your space
habitats too
nobody is invade anybody for their
planet there are just a lot of planets
and there are other options that are
better again like space habitats it's
not whether or not a space habitat is
easier than tail for me a planet though
it does seem like the only one would be
easier in many cases it's that tail for
me a planet in another solar system is
way harder than building a space habitat
there's no if ands or buts on that the
amount of energy involved you have a
time involved in a matter of energy
needed just to get small and Apple
people they are going to spend centuries
building up their numberless two-tail
from that planet all the technologies
that would let you tail form a plan in
another solar system make it so much
easier to build a space habitat so even
if you're not doing them for the
interplanetary days the early days
you're going to do them for you
interstellar now as to invade another
planet you're not doing because you want
to steer their resources you're doing
because you want to steal something you
need to that planet like you're altering
culture or you don't want them running
around but you don't want to exterminate
them and I put the deficit a on don't
want to exterminate them because the
only reason why you won't just nuke the
plan that's supposed to invading it is
if you're trying to preserve some part
of it y'all gonna ask hopefully humanity
aside you see racism against digital
Minds a real issue or something that
will get walked through very quickly I
always appeal to people's better natures
on things like that but I think that if
it's an AI that's reasonably replicating
humans I think that it would probably do
a pretty decent job as its own advocate
if it's small enough to really be seen
as competitive and that is a tricky
thing there you know you're gonna get
racism we get cats or
they're not a threat sometimes the
bigotry are kind of based at least in
powered off of a feeling of competition
or threat you certainly had that for nai
but if it's just something that lunch or
call for you in the chat abet I don't
think most people did you upset about
that and beyond that then you know we
have been mindful of your own but on a
chose I doubt you have it as an issue
for more than a couple of generations
though because you know people will get
used to it or they ban it from other to
mystery from Tau Ceti I think I've
mentioned before you guys all have very
interesting usernames as HP Lovecraft
[¬†__¬†] or good sci-fi thoughts both you
have to look at it from that era
if you mean something like mountains of
Menace HP Lovecraft being Arthur from
the early early 20th century it's a lot
like jaws warns people weren't
necessarily there's all that sigh sigh
these days but it absolutely was um very
broad genre then it's for and it's
sci-fi something can be both a lot of
sci-fi is [¬†__¬†] and a lot of [¬†__¬†] has a
sci-fi overtone you know any time you've
got aliens for another plan I think that
has a qualified to some degree a sci-fi
a very good walk though obviously it's
got some dated aspects mister boy asks
how big can a black hole gets how many
galaxies in galactic cores could you
reasonably shoved together probably
everything inside of a billion
light-years if you really wanted to but
I don't think you'd ever want to build a
black hole that was more mass than about
ten galaxies worth and even that you
know we talked about the Bulge planner
here and everyone because we do we
reference it as a good idea to build a
butch planet and folks say oh as for
those ones with a mom you know more than
excuse me saying that's not what the
Bush plan is a bush plan is inning with
a very large black hole in on solar mass
black hole at its center the upper end
of that being a multiple galactic masses
because at that point in time well one
gravity with the add would be inside the
event horizon and you can't quite get to
that level which I think we suppose half
a Lightyear crossed you pretty close
though and that's as big as you go so
anything beyond that would seem coin
mr. do it you mind do multiple ones
instead you I said to keep in mind we
start merging black hole was especially
big ones you're gonna get really
powerful gamma gamma wave releases we'll
talk about a morn weaponizing black
holes in two months so it's not
something you want to be doing casually
Bob bass could accumulate in rocket
exhaust in the solar system ever become
a problem you know is in an in a Dyson
swarm we have a lot of rockets you can
have a lot of gas around and it should
tend to stick to fairly candle what was
our speeds so particles atoms moving at
you know tens of kilometers a second oh
not something I'm gonna do much damage
to the hull of a ship that's designed
for a micro meteor impact you could just
have a bit of a general pollution though
and you would have to find a way to
sweep that out at the atomic scale kind
of a dust cloud I've thought about that
by no means satisfy as to whether or not
that would be a hindrance or something
you could just ignore but it shouldn't
be a big hindrance at the very least mr.
Ziya asks do you ever think about
creating a second channel for your DMT
stuff as you have a clearer talent and
storytelling it might just be fun
intriguing to listen to your own stories
perhaps in a sci-fi realm a lot of the
practice I got from making videos in the
early days was for making short skits
for whatever D&D game we will play at
the time mmm I really can't see doing a
second channel to be honest I wouldn't
mind playing about fantasy or sci-fi
aspects more but unfortunately ward
building and I'm going to write stories
as much I you know what's what the
geography of a waters so to speak the
maps the people the noble families etc
and then you play inside that set up but
RPG is fading and then writing a book I
think you know you have a mixed
storyline you're reacting people
real-time it's very different than
creating a script um who knows though
one day I just I don't think I would do
that as a second channel I know they got
actually do any second channels hybrid s
I asked do you think that Mars and Venus
will be terraformed before we head to
different stars or mind them to build
overall neo some doors
I think that we would probably man
that's hard to say
we're probably building on your so knows
quite a ways probably complete tail for
me of Mars or Venus I don't know if we'd
actually have a full-sized on your so no
for me began doing that that's that's
very hard to say as to other
interstellar colonies there the same
thing you're built on your sunless by
then you're a trap because you need to
perfected keeping the ecology on a it
will chicken habitats like that if you
need to move one to another solar system
without going the full-blown mechanical
doubt of growing people and vitro and
you know raising everything that needs
social continuity with a V all program
desert lands asks what is one movie or
movie series you'd watch or Rivas just
before you went blind Blade Runner or
dune those are some of my personal
favorites Don Ramon do and I can wash
those home went over again Don Ramon to
Vogel asks how do you think non-human
animals would be treated post-scarcity I
probably better than now I gotta that's
just hard to guess um we'll talk about
that maybe a bit more in synthetic meat
in early July
Seth Adler ah Thank You Seth hi Isaac
longtime subscriber and patreon in your
gut do you think I'll SIV not most not
some AI offshoot well I make it out of
our solar system I absolutely do you
know civilizations like all civilization
depends on whether what you mean by all
civilization even in countries that
still exist that were around 200 years
ago it's very different cultural than it
was then and one could argue a different
civilization change is going to be
constantly coin I don't think though
that the force you know several ships
will be I think the force no soul ships
would be automated but only the force
neo soul Coney ships would have people
on board who do not I would call
themselves as human they might be fairly
cyborg DUP though at this how to say
micro Zhang asks do you think the rate
of scientific discoveries has slowed
down the past few decades yes and it's
kind of an exponential growth covers
with throw more and more effort and
money in funds and
at science but at the same time you need
to climb ever higher to get that next
step
you know you need multibillion-dollar
projects to find particles where you
used to be able to do something in your
garage in the you know with 19th century
technology if I don't believe in
accelerating cause for progress or
things like Moore's equation or the
singularity concept not that I think a
singularity is impossible but I just
don't see those as good analogies I
think it resides on cherry picking the
concept too much Chris Walker asked do
you think we could engineer a device to
overcome inertia and if so how far away
for me I'll form it how far away are we
from achieving this by the time I go to
break I'm so on the stumble you know in
the antigravity episode a couple weeks
back we discussed this idea of inertial
dampening it'd be awesome we have it if
we could be asked if we could find some
way to alter the inertial mass of things
but there is one go as far as say there
is no leader at the higgs-boson
when we go and more about it might a for
lead but I don't think that beyond that
we really have any lead on how we do
that
FF c FF span XS is there a reasonable
altitude for railguns be effective as a
launch option from Earth you can do it
at any altitude even even sea level if
you really want to but I would say you
really want that gun ending at the
stratosphere or even the mesopause if
you can get up there
it's just how high can you go the higher
you can go the better and so you build
it as tall as you can get the thing to
launch the other end and that's that's
the launch hide I wouldn't go ahead and
go to break and we'll be back in a few
minutes
hello s FIA fans this is Ken York one of
the graphics guys who works for Isaac's
YouTube channel please excuse the audio
as after purchasing the latest graphics
card I was left with a two dollar budget
for recording technology just a few
notes on the 3d animation techniques
behind some of these graphics first of
all what is really interesting about the
graphics team at SFI a is the diversity
of techniques and tools
by each number each person comes from a
different background and produces
animations in their own way the net
result is a decent mix of various looks
and fields since I come from a software
engineering background I tend to do most
animations using what is called
procedural modeling and animation
basically this means using a scripting
language that is usually built into most
major 3d graphic software packages I use
for the most part a scripting language
called max script that is built into the
commercial software called 3ds max using
procedural modeling for example I can
quickly create a shell world as seen in
the recent matryoshka worlds episode
using only a script and a few variables
I can quickly regenerate from scratch
adjustable size to shell worlds with any
number of features like core radius
number of shell layer shell separation
distance shell thickness surface
features etc I also extended the same
script to generate any number of
symmetrical or below rings starting at
the point where the shells left off the
same goes with the lighting in the scene
the scripting can adjust the number of
lights position intensity color shadow
detail etc procedural animation is used
to create controllable and adjustable
motion in a seen the script provides
many interfaces to control an object's
position rotation scale texture etc over
time in the animation one of the many
benefits of procedural modeling and
animation is that very little work has
to be done by hand thus saving a lot of
time and is great for people like me who
are not trained as a graphic designer or
artist technology wise a benefit to all
designers is the exponential growth of
the rendering power of current GPUs
found in graphics cards even if your
software is a little outdated a new GPU
can draw an incredible number of
polygons very quickly
recently Nvidia had released a new set
of graphics cards that are optimized to
do real-time ray tracing which has been
the holy grail for some time now I'm
looking forward to working with those
cards to make some more graphics for SFI
a thanks for your time today and thanks
to Issac Arthur for making such a cool
you okay I'm well back that by the way
was Ken York he's one of the guys who
does the visuals here as
mentioned he actually just carne oh and
what about scripts ayodhya order of
magnitude on when the calculations for
next week's video where we leave off at
here Jeremy asks if you had but that if
you had to be stuck at a dinner party
for a Tony which three people would you
want to spend that interminable
Perdition Ben Franklin which would find
men and isaac asimov i would say be the
most interesting to talk to you for a
long time
zelich asks what are your thoughts on
programmable virtual metal hmm
I'm actually not sure what you mean by
that if you mean something like smart
metal that you could that could
rearrange yourself we actually that
discussed in what episode is that coming
up and I think we do talk about one of
the upcoming episodes though they had
asked Isaac what do you think the sports
the future will be well the most popular
sports continue to be physical like
football or boxing or cerebral like
chess I hate chess I used to play so
much as a kid get dried round of
tournaments I like a random element in
there I don't like playing a game more
about ten times you know football games
what were the future humans appreciate
more ah you know I I don't like to do a
discontinuity or kind of a false
dichotomy if you would of physical
sports and keeping yourself in shape
forces mental activities I think they
actually complement each other very well
if everybody is a cyborg though you
might not see so much sports because
it's you know who's got the best chassis
is not really the you know the level of
competition we're looking for I would
tend to think that what we probably see
a lot though is the lower gravity or
zero-gravity sports in the more distant
future or some of the more extreme
things like skydiving out an old bro
ring we will do an episode on future of
sports at some point space sports
known as pursue spaceports majestic set
I asked hey Isaac I heard someone some
people manage to uh put one part poem I
heard that some people managed to
teleport one particle with quantum
entanglement and faster Lightspeed
do you think eating large scale where
will be possible to teleport I think you
could puppy teleport very large things
although what's happy
this confuse people is your cloning the
state that's in you if you teleport
something like that so what you're doing
is is just replicating the pattern from
one set of particles to another set of
particles and that doesn't let you get
around FTL communication vehicles at all
Gregory asks what is your least favorite
law of physics it actually is an FTL
probably thermodynamics it's it's such a
down all having that in play that this
entropy limitation that there's no way
to bring it back that would be a nice
one to find a way to circumvent my asked
sorry Jeff cordis thank you very much
and we'll catch you up our questions
real quick also Dan Rob thank you there
was all super chat donations by the way
and those all appreciated Paul King asks
do you believe that ecology is recycling
excess body heat to power themselves is
a realistic option no you could never
recycle body heat well technically you
can get a little bit of a power gain off
body heat because we're about what 20
Fahrenheit higher than room temperature
or thirty degrees higher than room
temperature but that 15 Celsius so there
is a small amount of energy you can get
by say putting a suit on that was a heat
engine and was cooling yourself to the
ambient temperature well that is minimal
and that would require walking around
with a suit on you could be using all
colleges to be powered off with waste
Heathrow and even in a less obvious
fashion if you got a factory at the
bottom of that ecology you could be
using the heat from that to heat the
building and of course you could run a
heat engine after that it was running at
high temperatures but almost every
attempt to recycle heat that's been a
waste product of us is gonna come back
file up you very limited on you because
you just cannot get around that that
maximum efficiency of a heat engine
issue and you can't do it with
photoelectric as well I know people say
well could you absorb the infrared ones
and there are limitations on things like
photovoltaics that's just as Hall Sh
in fact worse than what we used giannis
heat engine so if you learn how to fly
or not by the way I'm sorry when I
mispronounce everybody's usual names
here I ask can you tell us a bit about
your time in the military
ah let's see I was in the military from
2003 through 2010 most of that time was
spent well big chunk of that was in
Germany and of course it was a
deployment to Iraq for about 14 months
and I guess an extra month on there for
Kuwait as well I do not like sandstorms
you know usually in a storm even in a
fog you always know which direction you
are to some degree another there was a
feeling of there is an outside wall just
can't conceal from you first time I was
in a sandstorm in Kuwait and the entire
universe effectively contracted to ten
you know ten meters across and police
you know olive oil cumin on the ground
was literally buried and it was just a
kind of blank template um as for the
military in general you probably had to
be more specific about the questions on
that I was in I thought team Bravo and
listed as listed rather than going off
so I know people ask about that
sometimes out of grad school and I was a
soldier and that's probably about the
extent of it my first sergeant he
finished out as the sergeant major in
charge of trade art that's the training
and Doctrine Command that runs the US
Army's training programs he did actually
write as memoir as the black flag Jones
which talks a lot more about what our
unit was doing I get mentioned a couple
of times but that's just probably a much
more objective and complete accounting
and things then I would work off the top
my head
Tommy vas says love the channel what you
think we'll actually be happy amount of
time when the ISS is being
decommissioned in Space Station wise be
it leo or elsewhere ie spaceship space
station wise be in Leo or else well I've
not had enough coffee today mm-hmm I
would like to think we'll have another
space station ready to go but you know
that
the shuttle program get discontinued
there was always talking about replacing
it and that didn't up not happening yet
anyway so there could be a period of
time and there's no space station and
that's okay as long as there's one on
the map we also don't want to just try
to just keep on the ISS going in
intolerably long I do think the next
space station is either going to be very
close to the ISS only just a little bit
big ol' and modernized or will actually
include a small rotating section
probably like moon gravity on Mars
gravity because we do need to test that
out at some point if we want to start
actually going these places code J of
ass eyes Agathe what you think Alcorn
age would be called one hundred three
hundred and ten thousand years from now
and from went on would it be defined you
know with the Ione age the Copper Age
and these are very loose and to be
honest very inaccurate Tom's buddy time
you're dealing with something like
global history it's going to be that way
because you have people in the IOH ball
most the population isn't even using
metals yet for instance I think I'm one
of the covergirl which is called the
atomic age of the information age or the
computer age and I think that's that
might yield one of those could stick I I
really don't know though is you know the
way historians pick these things out
they usually try and look at what the
biggest defining new influence was and
there have been so many changes as we
all know not even just cause um that the
technological age could be that we would
cut bottom out on research in a few
centuries you know get to kinda know
everything really major land resource
slows down to a bit of a crawl
so it might be the age of discovery or
something along those lines the block
asks will we ever go underground to the
core in let's say five hundred years and
is any incentive for it only reason to
go deeper than the upper mantle which
you might do for resource extraction is
essentially - well resource extraction
if you want to mine the planet out to
get all the materials and there are a
lot of materials there that might be a
reason why you would go to the core but
you know I've got to go down there too
anything like that you might go down
there to stop it even I imagine you do
that with magnets from above Thank You
Milson he asked what are the best
prospects for protecting humans from
radiation in space or on plans with no
natural defense against it you would
want to use multiple approaches on
something like that a magnetic field to
deflect ionized particle this is a very
good approach if you have the power
budget to be doing that which is an
essay or that high you do want to use
multiple layers or different types of
shielding because sometimes of shielding
what they actually do is break up a less
dangerous particle down into a more
dangerous particle and in which case
you'd have been better off not having
this shooting at all so you need to have
multiple layers of shooting against
different types of things that you're
not an irradiated I suspect will get
pretty good at though cuz I think that
we are increasing in a 1 decrease the
amount of radiation were exposed to so a
lot of things like filtering out the you
know the phosphorus or potassium we use
to avoid any radioactive isotopes nor
food might be something we actually
start doing it up and a couple more
generations Andrew Paul Freeman that
Andrew pulping hi Andrew should we take
the lunar gateway seriously you know I'm
actually not sure which one you were
falling to I mean Lee think in the
gateway Space Station we worked with
Gateway foundation and that one episode
4 space ports and all grow
infrastructure um there's a general
project before I wrote in habitats a
wonderfully good design it might be a
little bit ambitious for a forced one
but in terms of engineering absolutely
in terms of funding to make it happen
it's like anything else you know I told
people not to take SpaceX all that
seriously when I first got started up
and that case I was dead wrong the other
99 times I said you shouldn't take
something right though I I was right
sometimes you just can't get pessimistic
about these things you have to let them
play out and see if they can get going
and I'm so after me on these great ideas
that fundamentally I'll just limited by
funding time or something better coming
along
atilla's a boy asks why why we don't
build out what our scripts on the moon
space battle we don't build them on the
moon because it's too expensive at this
time to do to do a setup like that the
place you want to put them is on the
Dark Side of the Moon and that means
creating a relay system to send the data
back to the dark side being in terms of
dock in that we can't see it as opposed
to a perpetual darkness the big
advantage of a moon based one besides
that sound insulation which we could do
by just new heavy shielding is that you
do a very large Zenith telescope there
with a liquid metal I think we talked
about that and make it telescopes so
it's just a cost issue at this time you
know we don't have that many space
telescopes as is although they're not
all of them were in orbit of war Lowell
especially Paul Alaskan gravitational
waves travel faster than light
if so isn't that enabling FTL
communication I don't know where this
concept of a start-up is but popular one
there there's no gravitational waves
demonstrable move at the speed of light
you can even check things like that by
seeing which direction the force being
exerted by say Jupiter is on earth
it takes a lot of position to measure
that of course but if you look and you
say oh well the gravity is pulling us in
this direction but the plants actually
eight minutes for the head and in soil
bit or ten minutes for the one head so
it's just a little bit off but no
gravitational waves travel at the speed
of light and I say with the speed of
light it's not that that's the speed
that light moves at it's that that's the
maximum speed you can go and light is
the first thing we thought to call it
that Thank You Vova Kats opinion on
biologically advanced primitive aliens
territorial animal behavior evolved
interstellar travel possible stupid
aliens invasions story in we should do
another alien civilizations episode it's
a problem is that I would love to do
some more than more marking one's like
stupid aliens but had a couple the new
title for those there's a bit of a
standing joke with that between me and
the channels cover all this checkup is
we always like to leave those
tongue-in-cheek so that's why the
thumbnails for those always look like
cartoons we would want to see which ones
all you know which behaviors all
biologically motivated and which ones or
not is a really good idea to look at
the sense that we can expect nothing for
Sultan with them but where there's a
biological convulsions towards something
then it's more likely happened series we
don't say you'd expect every
civilization to be curious because how
would they discover technology otherwise
there might be exceptions but probably
not very many and that could be a good
episode to look at if anyone can think
of a good Pope really cheesy title for
that then maybe we'll have that episode
happen
metallic ass how many generations of
stars have the universe witnessed so far
and how many are held in the future all
and yes we'd say three because we have
population 1 2 & 3 stars but that's a
very if you way to look at it
some stars live me or millions of years
yawn and they blow up and you could have
many many sequences those where they
were getting material from each other
others have been around since the
beginning you know it's very small red
dwarfs in fact most red dwarfs we know
how to read wolf died yet I think maybe
a couple of the biggest orange dwarfs
that were early on might have died off
by now but even most yellow stars like a
Roman also still the fourth generation
of those haven't died not yet Andrew
Lawrence asks why do you think nobody
has used a Oh spike Rockets yet mass I
mean that they are spikes are very handy
when you're doing the rocket nozzle the
stuff all blows out the back technically
backwards but a lot of it's got momentum
moving a little bit up a little bit down
and that's wasted momentum so you want
to coming out as a puffy thin line or
you in the case of any other spike wedge
a thin plane and that gives you your
maximum thrust from that material so you
want that however there are very large
heavy objects that require cooling so if
we can make them light or they just have
to be built to the point where they're
light enough and easy after cool that
the thrust their video scene is is
mitigating the extra mass being added by
them I think we actually probably will
see some arrow spikes in things inside
the next 20 years it's just a question
when somebody gets the metallurgy up to
it and the cooling soft Tektronix ass
would mine helium-3 from the moon and be
cast effective
if you actually have a neutronic fusion
yes helium-3 on the moon is of no real
value to us until we actually have a
fusion based system that runs on it
which again is a neutronic fusion one
problem the moment that you have that
you no longer require a neo source like
the moon because you just head over the
place like Saturn or Uranus or Neptune
to go get your supply that's what we're
talking about in colonizing Neptune you
might have some local mining of it just
because if you already have an
infrastructure on the moon when the
demand arrives
you know Nero is always better but I
would never see that being a really big
economy on the moon just because there's
so much more of it in the gas giant
areas and the simple possession of the
device that makes you want helium-3 as a
fuel also means interplanetary travel
becomes relatively easy knife caviar
asks are you going to collab with
curious droid again any time soon knots
up my head I haven't talked to Paul in
some months I should look him up
our next collab coming I would love to
do one though Paul was a great guy to
work with but actually I mean I've done
clamps but it's been really awesome to
walk with and that's not just me saying
so our next one is going to be coming up
is with Jade from up in Adam Jay 10
homes will be looking at Boltzmann
brains the anthropic principle and
consciousness and those I don't have a
date for those shadows we're just kind
of a you know probably not be a regular
Thursday episode though so I'm very very
schedule winter about Thursday episodes
I always like to make sure they come out
exactly on time so the bonus episodes
are the ones we do for short notice or
extra stuff I suspect most of all clouds
probably beyond on on bonus episodes on
weekends and things like that
of all banila asks any thoughts about
the geopolitics of space colonization a
way we can make sure one nation doesn't
just grab plants for its own mm-hmm
there is a a threat aspect that goes on
with any sort of land negotiations if
you have a nice fair system in play
whoever's got the most money
to be the one who's getting to exploit
that as the most the idea is preventing
them from doing it too much and one
upside as a war Silver Lining perhaps of
space travel is everything is really
vulnerable to attack it's very easy to
blow up a spaceship and they themselves
are weapons but they're also very
fragile against something like a plant
so I don't think you'd actually have
somebody trying to claim steak vast
regions all to themselves where other
people getting civil amounts but I
suspect that there that however ends up
being posted out will be the least
unfair system that could be
pragmatically put in place I'm sure
people will object to it and poppy on
very good grounds in May cases but I
don't think one's gonna make a
legitimate claim for the entirety of
malls or the entire in the moon if
there's ever a government that's just
the moon government or the Mars
government it's likely be something that
generations after settlement they form
themselves I also would not be surprised
if an awful lot of these places where I
was thinking as new colonies really wore
me different nations and me of them
territories of a nation's existing back
on earth that were quite happy to stay
with that government so you can easily
have a million governments back on earth
in the future well most of them actually
control entire interest although Empire
was house where Jeremy Scott asked if we
had to abandon earth would we want to
take two of each creature with us when
they become a poorly embedded with a
handful o generation so should we just
bring thousands of cats I definitely
favor the thousands of cats options um
I'd say ed Prospero was scratching at my
office store about half the episode step
um he wants to come in but he must stay
outside because he gets full all over me
in breeding with animals is not really
an issue and of itself you can freeze
their eggs easy enough to just have new
Jeanette you know you can either have
the shared model or you could have pre
fertilized ones for implantation if you
are packing a single live creature
instead of two that would probably work
just as well
you don't really want them bleeding too
much on your spaceship in general so
freezing is good Louise
keeping a population them at all is
because you want social continuity with
those animals you know human cannot just
be born they have to be taught and
raised and a lot of animals have applied
to and we looked at that in exporting
off and that's actually one of our
justification is by larger ships of
metal because you allows you a much
bigger ecology Peter Fraser asked seven
eyes read it yet yes I have it's not
going to be one of our books in a month
I do like neo Stevenson as Natha but my
favorite book by him is Snow Crash so if
we ever do a book of the month by him it
would probably be Snow Crash um it's an
interesting book most of his book is but
I did think it was a little under long
and expositional aside Joe Dunn asks
with so much negativity about climate
change war resources overpopulation etc
how do you stay positive about the
future
I definitely think of myself as positive
about the future um my justification
will being positive about the future is
that the past history of humanity has
been pretty much me a little bit like
the stock market you have some ups and
downs but pretty much one perpetual
climbed towards you know better life in
almost every respect and I think that we
can say at this point in time that a
desire for that I push for that and a
general human will for that is
definitely they are so I only really see
it as a concern when you things like
cortex tential issues like a loss of
purpose or going to hedonism from a
post-scarcity civilization or a suicide
pact technology eg something that blows
you up without you thinking about it but
you know a lot of negativity that we see
on on the future I think hey I hate to
face it this way this kind of this
Malthusian mindset to me speaks usually
about the person saying it a lot more
about them than it was about humanity if
you go through life with a negative
attitude of course I don't think it's
more accurate and least bit a second I
think it's just indicate indicates a
certain amount of hidden ego you think
you'll be able to stupider than you are
and that may in some cases be true but I
don't think that's a very productive or
accurate way to look at the war so it's
not a wishful thinking optimism to me
it's very
magnetic realism approach I hope things
turn out better then I would tend to
hope for and they might turn out worse
1904 but I really do feel like the the
core of faithfuls been increasingly
better future given is asks do you think
humans are possibly among the forced
intelligent species in the galaxy as
solution of the following paradox yes
now that that's my state opinion is the
most likely or I should say least
unlikely some solution for the form a
paradox and I would carry that outside
the probably most of all supercluster to
be honest I think humanity is the first
intelligent species in all region of the
universe at least the force
technologically intelligent one you know
an elephants have been around as long as
humans maybe long ago not sure what the
evolutionary track is but they're quite
small too so technologically advanced
civilizations to the point where we're
at I think we all the first I think that
is the most non unlikely solution before
macaques know the answers have ever
struck me is really popular fitting
though lucas asks what would a
civilization look like if it will bio
form to space that is if they could live
like the Geth in Mass Effect and Mass
Effect being directly exposed to the
vacuum of space we have an episode
coming up on that space whales and bio
ships in early July so I will pass on
discussion of that for the moment but
you could create something I don't think
something could evolve in space that
could actually live in the void that's
possible but unlikely but you can
absolutely tale or something to of
course then the question is is it really
a life-form in the classic sense and
that's we are still kind of getting into
the iffy definitions or bad definitions
Josh Phillips thank you he asked why is
modern pop sci-fi so bad it seems like
budget and quality have an inverse
relationship maybe you know I think of
classic Doctor Who which I still love
Tom Baker your Pio Davidson era and and
even the horribly maligned Colin bacon
baked all six dr. era you know this was
very good science fiction in my book but
obviously the sci-fi budgets were awful
and
often the the sets the props and the
scripts could have used a lot more walk
me times they are trying to avoid tropes
I think oh they're trying to mix them is
going to appeal to more mainstream
audience and that's is you know I think
that kind of cuts the territory we have
a lot more science fiction TV shows we
used to we all used to be lucky if we
had one let alone two on air at the same
time and I think that you're going to
have bad shows come with that so with
much trying to make their own walk by
being very different I wouldn't mind if
more than tried to bring some of the
classic shows to life and I say oh no
one of our next questions about Georgia
or mountains so I would say that that is
a good example of bringing a fantasy or
science fiction show up series to
television as opposed to to a movie and
I think that's a great idea we're gonna
go ahead and go to another break and
we'll pick up from there we're gonna go
to probably about 20 after 5 hello
everyone my name is Matthew Acker
and I'm here to give you a
behind-the-scenes look at how we at SFA
a making episode but first let me
introduce myself
born in New York my family has been
military for generations and I'm no
exception however I did suffer a head
injury and I lost my sense of self for
many years interstellar is what stepped
me on the path of rediscovery and
gravity from here I'd learned everything
I could from wherever I could
and after devouring Isaac's channel a
message came that I was a big fan and a
huge believer in what he was doing and
then I wanted to help out in any way I
could I have been a member of the
production group now for about 18 months
and I am also an admin for the SFI a
disk or and websites a work hard to
educate others to believe in themselves
and dream big as the others have done
for me now each episode begins with
either posting to a production group a
brainstorming session day time and the
two topics that we're going to cover
this gives everybody plenty of
opportunity to do research
so we can hit the ground right now each
session lasts roughly two hours about
one hour for each topic during these
sessions we often come up with amazing
concept such as the stellar engine we
even come up with new content that Isaac
wishes to turn into an episode in the
future after the session Isaac will go
and write up a draft and when he's done
he'll post it to the production group
where we can go to it and add modify or
make suggestions where Isaac can come
along and approve or change or if he's
unhappy I'll scrap it and start again
next Isaac will record the audio segment
and post it up on the production group
for us to screen it for any errors or
issues and then we will move on to the
graphic segment again to be streamed
Isaac likes to stay roughly two months
ahead of schedule for the release date
of every episode every episode takes
roughly 60 minutes of creation time for
one minute of video time though we are
increasing as we get more efficient at
this process and there you have an
episode now from everybody here at SFI a
I wish to thank you for your time your
support and your ideas without which we
would not be where we are so thank you
very much and please enjoy the rest of
the livestream and we're back again
we'll go for probably about five or six
more questions than caught for the day
question from Smitty have you read any
sci-fi by George or Moulton and thank
you Smitty night fly I was I've read way
back in the day and some was other ones
to their names escape me the moment it
is interesting is that a george RR
martin before Game of Thrones or Song of
Ice and Fire was probably best known for
Beauty and the Beast which was kind of a
sci-fi show too but he's very good
Arthur and he does do a lot more science
fiction than most people I think tend to
realize M G Wagen s and Thank You M G
Wagen what do you think of the chance
starship gets to Mars
I'm out of a pillow questionnaire from
Eden right below that do you think
Koen eyes tight Norma was forced and I
would say for that one yes we should do
most force and I do think that yeah
there was so many projects for how to
actually get to Mars and of course you
have something up kind of on the silly
side or premature or more of a wish to
play or I tend to think updated for
modern technology course the pathway
laid out by Rob Zubin in the case for
Morris back in the mid-90s is still one
of the best go into poaches but I do
keep my fingers crossed like the SpaceX
approach of just kind of throwing masks
quasi material and see if it sticks
always my Ford where nazma the ass and
thank you Dan Smith in the fall future
do you think you can quickly lon all the
science pack up find a quiet nook and
play God in some quiet corner hmm I'm
gonna come and chop with that has been
can you basically get a download where
you know all the science your
civilization noon then fly out to
someplace that no he was at and set up
shop I think that to a degree you could
but large group efforts are always going
to have an advantage of getting to these
places forced and there might be a push
because you're never going to be at a
high just reject when you leave a solar
system not a significant way so they are
gonna matter where you go they might be
able to see when you actually get there
but they'll be following themselves with
other ships or probes so you could have
a phase where you're very small groups
you know you know just individual groups
of maybe 20 or even individual people
might go off and colonize you know
places on the other side of the galaxy
and we might run into those guys that
they're already set up as the main
colonization wave arrives and that could
be kind of interesting but I think you
could it's possible I just think that
would probably tend to be something we'd
avoid
they're kind of a benefit a whole image
of one person going off and setting up
shop as God on some other planets and
generally I think the motivation of most
people who would wanna do that would be
suspect that they couldn't find other
people who want to colonize the same
ideology or goals in mind so possible
but hopefully not too probable I set
that low thank you he asks if you had to
pick a path to commercial fusion what
would you pick oh I've got magnetic
confinement I told and I have four mag
toga fusion general fusion and of course
I assume taka max in there too I have
too many friends who actually in this
area of research in fact I got to bump
into one my old friends from undergrad
John Morse and he's working on not a
fusion for power but fusion for
different purpose in creating neutron
beams and we had a chance to catch up on
that so there are so many different ways
you could do that and I don't like to
express a preference on the metal cuz I
feel like we should be funding them all
right now the tokamak
still seems to me like the best system
but it's got so many problems that one
might argue that it's even if it's got a
good performance of me respects that we
usually should be looking at those other
areas and my general attitude on pretty
much all energy policy is research and
prototype everything you know just keep
throwing stuff at it until we find some
some good ones and hopefully one of them
sticks and so is a good replacement for
us be a Soloway infusion which ever I
don't think wind could really have to be
compared if except as a supplemental
though and that's the thing to remember
too is you do want multiple power source
generation methods some will work better
in certain situations plus yeah helps
avoid some of the bottlenecking
or you know monopolistic tendencies grab
and play with the power supply if you
have multiple ways to get power you know
some are not quite as good majestic
satire asks when do you actually think a
moon base will be set up depends on
which mean by a moon base I you know
everybody was saying we'll go back to
the moon next decade us and they're
there for a while but I do think we all
getting closer and closer doing that we
have the technology to do it we've had
the technology since the late 60s of
course and though some conspiracies
would say otherwise I would disagree
with them very much we've had Lee Boyd
you a moon base there at that time too
you know within the 70s we could have
set up a moon base the question is why
and they're all motivations do it but
it's not something we should jump at
prematurely you know as I'd like to
point out Anika
had 50 years passed by from the first
time someone went to the post we said
about force to real base there and it
wasn't a very good one
rushing thing this is not necessarily a
good idea
but I do think we can expect a moon base
sometime the next generation though
that's always hard to say are we out of
questions not seeing the other ones from
the guys that we can't possibly have one
other questions funny was wondering we
have a side win over that mod send me
questions from they pull from the chat
windows so I see new ones popping up
there I guess we will go ahead and stop
okay let's go the schedule quick and
maybe I'll get a question before I sign
off we have had the schedule coming up
on the side as we were discussing today
but coming up this upcoming week is
going to be the black hole ships episode
and then next week may 9th is our sky
platforms episode we're going to look at
some of the options for launching from
high up in the atmosphere a very popular
notion that I have some problems with it
we'll look at there and see if there's
any ways around it like the
stratofortress from from D s then we are
going to go and look at morph black
horse material with fleet of stalls
which be mostly about moving stalls
either with Chicana thrusters or with
very large black holes and then we're
going to come back to look at space
planes kind of following up from sky
platforms and this kind of notion that
you could fly up to space from your own
garage which will follow up with beaming
power in all the sorry later tune and
then we'll be getting back to the
outward-bound series look at colonizing
Pluto and so a lot of episodes kind of
in the near future if you have extra
questions please feel free to leave them
in the comments I'll get those in a
couple of hours they don't really put
them up until outwards and I cannot
apply the chat so I do read the chat
afterwards or your time but I can't
actually see it for about an hour after
the livestream stops so and I can't
apply to it there either so we will see
everybody in about a month for our next
live stream and we will see you guys all
on Thursday thanks for joining us
