good afternoon everyone will be li pian
to livestream in just a moment so please
stock in your questions into a live chat
now so we can get you as many as
possible today we also have started
grabbing some questions in advance of
the show to avoid any dead a or time
with young questions or doing
audio-visual checks so as a heads up for
future shows
once we scheduled the next live stream
usually a few days before we do it
you can start leaving questions and
comments in the chat and also if we
don't get you a question today feel free
to leave it as a comment and I'll try to
get in and answer it afterwards with
that said welcome and let's get to it
good afternoon everybody we're just
gonna go ahead and leave right into
questions today with a couple we had
from Facebook in advance
Vasko Douglas asks might we one day use
some sort of quantum data link between
earth and fall off future vessels
colonies or aliens one of the problems
with the quantum entanglement idea this
kind of this notion that you could speak
to people fast and life by using quantum
entanglement is that's not how quantum
entanglement generally walks there was
that spooky action a distance where
things do appear to go faster and light
but all that's telling you is what the
state of that particle is if as an
example if I send some be a note that
says on this letter there is going to be
a number of 0 or 1 and there's an
identical at all that says 0 or 1 but
the opposite of what you have I'm going
to send both those letters out and I can
go ahead and open that letter when I get
it see a 0 and no the other person has a
1 on their level I know that piece of
information faster than light but I
still don't know what was contained on
that letter otherwise just that those
two things all up and down respectively
and that's kind of how quantum
entanglement spooky action a distant
walks there's no way we can think of
that would tell us faster and light what
someone was saying or at least that
wouldn't allow you to find out after
Ward's so you could say you know you
know this information but as a meanie
thing to you until the slow and light or
light speed communication reaches you
let's see our next questions from Keith
block is he asks how would or should we
go to near-term asteroid comet mining ie
tote tote route passing location on site
mining robotics crash land on Luna etc
there was always this kind of notion
when you have a when you're doing
asteroid mining is all you bring in the
asteroid home or are you doing all your
doing all your material extraction they
aren't sending that home and then how do
you actually get it back to earth or
back into orbit because in general with
most the material you don't actually
want to get it down off there was plenty
of ion on earth we want ion for you in
orbit or at the moon we've talked about
things like gold and platinum yeah you
might actually want to land those on
ortho since a lot of those are
commodities we're using to some degree
as a currency you don't
say need to land that was on earth than
they use for to walk he might keep in a
repository but those are small enough
you might just go ahead and put them in
a reentry pot and let them land on earth
and use that to break your speed
otherwise when you're saying this stuff
home you want to make sure what's going
slow enough to the gates capture an
orbit around Earth you can't just send
it back there and you don't want to just
crash in the planet and that does
require a very slow process unless you
want to burn a lot of fuel slowing it
down you before bond no fuel maybe
before the born born a minimum when it
was leaving - the thing about mineral
extraction case like this is that by and
large you don't really need it right
this moment
you need to stay supply but you don't
care the ion your money today will be
ten years for me one actually gets
around to to being used and you just be
that supply to be stable and so if it
takes forever to get there from wherever
you're mining it's even though the solar
system all you really need to know is
that it's going to get there on about
when and so you can get away very slow
motions pretty much the minimum need to
get into orbits or the minimum needed to
get it from Alpha Centauri back home and
if you're doing long term you know ion
that's on its way back home from Alpha
Centauri and it's gonna take a few
millennia that's fine
so as the processing you gonna do that
on sites or you're gonna have to do that
some Midway points you want to use the
minimum fuel possible to move their
thing so that means preferably doing
your finding they are though it might
depend on circumstances you know in the
asteroid belt you might call an asteroid
to a central processing location in the
belt which doesn't require too much
Delta V or how your your rough over they
undo the refining they are there is one
of those things though they will end up
finding out what the best way is when we
actually do it we can guess right now
that's what it
nicolai Balearic ask your thoughts on
the political difficulties of building
an orbital ring can we overcome them in
your future the big one for an orbital
ring which again for those who don't
know is a ring usually around the
equator although it doesn't have to be
that just goes around the entire planet
it's effectively stationary because it's
two-piece object it's gotten inside this
movie very fast and outside that is not
and it has a net momentum to stayin
orbit around Earth as a stationary
checked you have to build that over top
of place though and it has to go around
the entire planets although as we
discussed the some of those episodes
you don't necessarily make these so
calls they don't necessarily pieces and
they don't necessarily actually need to
be all valley planets you do the
according of a launch loop a very simple
concept you have to get right away so in
ways it's very simple to trains I don't
think most countries would appreciate
you know we let satellites open around
the earth right now for everybody's
territory and that can be contentious
times too but you want to build a
stationary object fixed eighty miles
over top of somebody's country you're
gonna need to get their permission
realistically and it's not sa the
equatorial countries in that band
because you can put one on an angle
though that's more difficult because you
have possession to deal with but you all
gonna have to actually get their
permission to do something like that and
that's a negotiation diplomatic thing I
believe it's only possible we built
trans Transcontinental Railroad so not
just in one country but it is gonna be
one of those things we have to negotiate
to get that port off okay let's get the
questions from the actual chat and you
can go ahead and put questions in the
chat I'll be going through them myself
today so I'll be probably little bit
slow picking those out let's see it was
one that I saw the beginning I want to
get to lots of side questions though
devotion is fatiguing able to find them
not sure why Palestine is coming up
question about black hole's spin do
black hole's spin and and can you flip
them over and I can but who would ask
that but that was the general gist of
the question you can flip a black hole
over what same as you can flip over top
but it takes a lot of effort it's like
trying to flip any spinning object
you've probably seen that trick with a
bicycle wheel and chavos they're very
staple objects you can flip them but you
have to resort a lot of force and
momentum the other thing is there's very
few cases where you would want to do
that you would probably all true its
direction a little bit here they are to
be aligned with wave or Direction try
and do with it because a lot of stuff we
want to do with black holes
is very depending on which grade the
polls up are facing but there's no
particular reason why you want to flip
that now as the question of how do you
possibly spin a point-like object we
don't know
you know that's we don't know if a black
hole actually has a singularity in the
bottom of it or not as best as we can
tell now that we're starting to image
these things and it does seem to match
with all theories they certainly do have
angular momentum and spin and and that's
particular for them to have that and so
we do know they have them whether or not
that says that they are not actually
point-like objects is a little bit more
debatable but they spin very quickly
very very quickly and a neutron spot
always been insanely fast because they
have all the angular momentum that star
had collapsed you have a tight point
same as an ice skater nobody put their
arm out they slow down when they bring
it in they speed up that same process is
happening with black holes they are very
tiny they are possibly point-like but
again I can't think any particular
reason why you want change the direction
of their spin Albert Jackson ass the SFA
logo is on a someone thank you who
designed it and what program does he or
she use Windows Anja I actually don't
know what software Jacob uses but I'll
cover all this Jacob gregor who does
some of other graphic as well but
whenever you see one of the thumbnails
other than the big black ones with the
logo that just say you know thumbnail
pending or in live stream coming the
thumbnails for the episode the cover
wall for that is done by jacob gregor
and he's actually the first volunteer on
the show in terms of the crew and he
makes all the weekly ones though i do
some of the couples for the bonus
episodes because he's very busy and I
like to pester him when I liked went out
an extra episode and I can't thank Jacob
enough that he did design the the logo
the brand that we use for that I've
modified it a little bit by putting the
actual initials s FIA on there only the
channel was actually called SFI a at the
time we designed it if anyone's ever
noticed the channels just called Isaac
ah Thor that's because it was my old
Google account same as anybody else's
and I used to upload random you know
home videos and stuff like that too that
don't go looking for them I delete them
all but it just kind of mutated into a
channel and I've never wanted to change
the official name they offer you the
option of like a vanity URL if you get
to a certain size on YouTube
but um it removes all of your comments
that you've ever posted when you change
the name of channel not everybody's
comments but yours and that would remove
ever you apply that I put on the show
and I do apply to a lot of comments and
those are often explanations of you know
something they or I know that was in the
video and to me the Aventa URL or
changing the name of the show to SF ia
or science and features of MacIsaac
although instead just Isaac although it
isn't what we're moving you know those
thousands of who applies and comments
I've made over the years if they ever
fixed that up up we get that changed
commander common ass have you ever
thought about doing this to Lois
playthrough no it's a great game it's
obviously very popular folks though I
don't play it too much myself I'm a big
Paradox Interactive fan and I'm sure
some of you would notice we do use their
music Luka
speaking of like folks were up on the
show Jakob does the Cowboys and Luka
DeRosa has been doing a lot of the
soundtracks for the episodes of lights
and he actually did contact Paradox
Interactive to see if we can use some of
the music from stellaris Nate said yes
so and I think I you know I I don't want
to plug paradox too much but I didn't
play a lot of games by them so they make
very good strategy games and I do love
the soundtrack from still alright but no
I wouldn't do a game walkthrough um and
you know that's its own dish
stick to your own itch and I know some
folks do gaming and other shows too but
I wouldn't want make live commentary
while I was playing games because I
would probably be tossing on a regular
places plus I took place sandbox games
anyway you'll never see me in a
multiplayer game for the most part I
just does not tend to me my thing um
looks question
sorry about that sticking well for me to
go through these two by the way happy
birthday wisdom a one okay soldier the
all cast with the new Baba voice coming
out soon I actually don't know that with
the new Baba voice coming out soon about
the source for Bend or what is your
theory as to what helped him also dang
you're looking good for gun but a gun
buddy by the way is a name for folks who
are all chilly and if it was curious I'm
sure I've mentioned I was in artillery
when I was in the army
I do not know a new Baba Voss book was
coming out which is kind of a horrible
oversight because I know this love his
walk so I'm as excited you are here on
new ones coming out which gives us
another book of the month at some point
and I actually can't move which one
bender is after at my head for those who
are not familiar the series the Bob of
all series by Dennis eat a law is about
a fellow who gets himself frozen then he
gets resurrected as a as an upload in
mind essentially and I makes a lot of
copies of himself to help explore the
galaxy instead of the galaxy and after a
while it begins running out of names
each of the copies has to have its own
name and some of the mystery or things
like you know will raikou and and other
names that we very associated science
fiction by the time he's got a few
hundred durations they're getting named
things like Homer Simpson and bender of
course presumably in Futurama but I'm
afraid I can't remember that character
at the moment that is a great series by
the way I will also recommend the
audiobook on that one because the fellow
who does that Mary Porto is just a
rapidly becoming one of my favorite
narrators let's see what is the best
vegetable broccoli no question from
goggly yes how developed populated would
an off earth colony need to be in order
to keep going and continue human
population growth and expansion to space
if a disaster but a wipeout humans on
earth that's always a tricky question is
because it also comes into play when
we're discussing things like how big
does a collie need to be forced out
sending off
of its own you know you can send ships
out it's a 10% of live speed and and
rapidly colonized the whole galaxy in a
million years obviously a given value of
relatively fast but the assumption is
after a certain point you know you're
gonna leapfrog to some degree or there's
gonna keep sending out colony ships even
after the force you know 100 or so light
years have been colonized because it can
still send ships more easily than those
dawdle colonies can yet and so youryour
colonization waiver is never going to
originate from the nearest planets
identity system it's always gonna come
from a ways back in where they've
actually developed and expanded a lot
when an interstellar colony it almost
has to be completely self-sufficient
from day one for an interplanetary
colony like one on Mars of the moon it
does not and ideally would never be 100%
independent you want to be robust and
independent it needs to be but traits a
good thing it keeps keeps people
interacting if somebody wants to go and
set up their own isolations calling eBay
by all means but for the most part I'll
go with colonization I would say is to
set up things that are self-sufficient
but not completely independent and how
much you need population wise or
development wise is always gonna be
really based on technology you know we
had a lot of counties in the early
Americas that or in the Pacific there
only had a couple of people starting off
and most of us do not fail failure well
fail failure well until they got
additional colonies so they had ones
nearby um or at least one some kind of
trade route that necessitate people
visiting them well you got stuff like 3d
printing no genetic engineering you say
you need a certain number of people just
uh you know not get all incestuous
inbred and have thumbs but you don't
actually need that if you got enough
technology cuz you just edit out those
problems or prints and DNA from the
archive or use frozen embryos and sperm
from donor was back on earth and have a
big bank of those you can draw on the
same place full of industrial things
you're almost always going to gain a
benefit of scale when you're doing mass
production versus 3d printing we always
put each individual customized object
and we don't know how much that's going
to be good 3d printing may still not be
as good as
economy of scale but it might be more
enough to let you be self-sufficient if
if earth blew up for instance or got
great goood
it's worth noting though and we do have
an episode coming up in that very
shortly first interplanetary
civilizations or was that is that dad
that is this week's episode coming up
isn't it
and one things we as a drawback are away
from that is that the video not a lot of
things can destroy a technological
civilization they don't gonna splash
over you don't really get that disaster
effect you get a one or it's gonna spill
over on the malls if it's that extreme
of a war see but it's a good question
I'm afraid it's not really give me a
good answer that go cuz it's so depend
on technology alright
a true Pony to ask doc meadow is just
the eighth of hypothesis changed my mind
a doc Meadows came out actually not that
long after we blown a hole in a Thor
wiki forced noted it's fairly
conclusively in 1930s reasons for people
doubting talk metal um or honestly kinda
thin at this point I'm doubting any
particular type of what happens to be
yeah on towards in a lab that's that's
fair enough
but you have missing mass and I'm almost
every alternative ocean people produced
has missing mass we never proved ether
didn't exist instantly the micro-sim all
the experiments prove that we didn't
need it and we didn't have any way to
detect it so for practical purposes it
may as well not exist doc manners a
little bit different we absolutely
detect it and people say well you can't
see it
Oh big deal we can't see almost a lot of
things we look at there's a zone of
avoidance between us and a lot of the
universe because the center of all
galaxies in the way we see effects from
that stuff on everything else that Great
Attractor dog flow that's on the other
side of the zone of avoidance I can't
see the inside of the Sun I can't see
the inside of the earth I believe that
they are they oh and I believe we can
study their properties so I'll actually
have to drill a hole down now that I
always leave some uncertainties you
always want the most direct evidence you
can get but if we detect a planet that's
got oxygen in its atmosphere for
instance that's not conclusive proof of
life but it's pretty strong
indicator is talking more and more
things you get testable and falsifiable
experiments you can do and we've done
those for dog meadow to see whether or
not it's that or something else with the
examples like the bullet cluster that
was to rule out what we call modify
Newtonian dynamics we saw that and we
said well we got these two options Dark
Matter or modified Newtonian dynamics
that gravity gets considerably weak or
the distance more than just also inverse
all squared and when we saw the bullet
cluster all it did not fit modified
Newtonian dynamics and it did fit dark
matter as a particle and similar things
we look at ATS formation the early
universe start to rule out a lot of
these things so the big difference with
aether is we were just assuming that
lights needed some kind of medium to
travel through because every other way
we'd encountered you know sound waves
water waves etc had a medium they
traveled through so we just concluded
well presumably light has one too and we
called it ether we later found out from
the microwave all the experiments that
that was necessary for that model and we
had no evidence for it we simply again
assumed it presumably existed because
waves always seem to go through a medium
so there's a really big difference
between dark matter or an ether and I
mean obviously I can't sway anybody on
that topic but dark matter was about as
so as you can get as a concept now what
the individual particles all they're
probably slow-moving they're probably
fairly massive they are not going to be
black holes and things like that unless
Hawking radiation is wrong but asked
whether that exists yeah I don't think
there's a lot of them for all given out
anymore
um but someone might change my mind
the Allegiant trader asks is there an
alternative for concreting core for
alien civilizations with different
younger geology than off yes and no
forced if they're carbon-based and
that's probably you know we can't really
talk about situations but they wouldn't
be called and based in Milan but they
are carbon-based odds are they all going
to be on a planet that's not coal and
oil on it um you just have that big
buildup of life dying off as as a
species evolve towards intelligence and
you'd expect that to leave coal and oil
behind
however this the fossil fuel has been a
great benefit to us in the last century
we call it so the other downsides the
impression that they are the only thing
that you can walk off of it's just wrong
it doesn't make much logical sense
ethanol not one of the best fuels for
college to be to be fail is alcohol we
invented that quite a long time before
we discovered fossil fuels or at least
started using fossil fuels solar panels
we were beginning to develop basic
photovoltaics about same time the call
was coming into play we'd always gotten
the engine pretty well designed and
those fossil fuels were quite handy we
also have wood burning ones um they were
actually very popular a lot of the
countries for a while would gas stoves
and what gas some calls when they were
concerns about oil and ball goes a
middle last 20th century these things
work fine though in these cases they
require you to build them and to and to
use that land for that purpose same for
biofuels you have to give over land for
that as opposed to farm you know in need
of ecology solar panels we probably
develop them a lot fast or if we'd
gotten the electricity going with Edison
but the car hadn't taken off or engines
had taken off nuclear power start
getting discovered very soon thereafter
- and that will cover all your
electricity and we do know how to make
batteries so is it beneficial Air Farce
of yours to to speed up your development
absolutely yeah it helps your economy
out that's gonna help your research
because you've got so much more resource
and infrastructure to to be able to
spend on things like we soldier
development is it necessary now there's
an implied timer on civilizations using
fossil fuels that they're kind of run
out of
fuel or vac the ecology in us using it
and when you have that implied timer
then you do need to get this stuff done
a certain amount of time if you're using
something like ethanol or nuclear or
solar these are kind of eternal power
supplies to some degree you can run out
of fissile materials but there's quite a
lot of them out there especially now we
have new processing methods and so
there's no timer
there's no running me out of it or
ecological wreckage to worry about so if
it takes an extra few centuries to
develop because you're using these the
singing the big boost from fossil fuels
then does it matter I mean you you don't
have a timer on you you know it took us
thousands of years to go from basic
pottery to to use of steel you know it
took be able to take an extra few
centuries we wouldn't be around right
now but you know something else would be
normal be a few centuries too late and a
few centuries is just nothing on these
kind of timelines and there's only
really relevant if you had that kind of
built in time on your civilization where
you're going to run out of this thing so
you didn't have in the first place that
time was not even in play let's see
thank you Andrew Matt Campbell asked
what is your favorite dinosaur hi Matt I
will go with the t-rex just sitting
there particularly cool I was Manship
the tire and I was thinking so he says
well you don't ride horse as much as I
know I don't really like to ride horses
and you know I'm I don't think of myself
as a rural portion because there's at
least half a mile to hit the news horse
ranch from where I'm at I live in a
village very very populous and dense all
1,200 of us but so I'm not gonna ride
I'm not gonna try to bring a horse
around I don't really like to wear hats
but I could ride a dinosaur so if they
if they get honest wasn't play I could
wear them and I feel okay wearing my
bolo ties but I yeah
t-rex caster asked what traits that
humans have do you think are unique or
rare among all possible life in the
universe for all plausible life without
the implied rider that's intelligent
life I would say abstract thought
communication capability you know we
talk about animals talking to each other
and then you
eunuch eight but they do not have a lay
language you know there's an inbuilt
thing of instinctual body language
combined with a little bit of localized
learning between that one and any one
he's been around for a long time
we have abstract concept
internationalizing there are seven
billion of us with this teo seven point
six billion with us with this and maybe
a hundred billion before us who have had
that trade and that is less than there
are a number of stars in this galaxy
alone so it's pretty rare trait for life
in general though we have this problem
we follow with a mediocrity principle
the component in principle is time of
science and we were talking about that
with our collaboration with Jade last
weekend that you have the alternative
the anthropic principle but under
mediocrity under Copernican principle
you assume that you're normal so we
can't really assume any trait of humans
is abnormal for other intelligent
civilizations but it could be that it is
really abnormal humans are the only
abstract concept good thinking group
amongst our various species many of whom
have very large brains and many of them
have had those large brains at least as
long as we've had always you know
elephants raccoons dolphins these do not
pop up just a million years ago and
that's been about when we started
getting these these alterations to our
brain a million two million years ago
whatever it was and and ongoing since
then so we don't know that you know
that's a mediocre thing that's a normal
outcome of evolution even of creatures
that have relatively large brains and I
think though that we do have to assume
that there was all relatively mediocre
for advanced civilizations because they
do need that curiosity that
conceptualizing and I would not expect
curiosity or socialization the abnormal
traits develop in evolution so enough
for technologically advanced
civilizations you gotta hold it that
otherwise but I suspect we will find out
humanity is fairly unique compared to
other intelligent species as we meet any
but in what ways it's hard to say you
know you look at a list of mediocre
examples of things or planets never
almost everyone's can have some
relatively unique trait same as with
people I don't think it myself is normal
I'm a unique person but I treat myself
as me Yoko
any even trades until I've met a bunch
of the people who have that trait to
some degree another and see how do i
average out against them and we can't
have to do that in Sciences unless you
want to follow the anthropic principle
which is a lot harder to test obviously
though not an essay a less valid it's a
way of guessing when we don't know much
Cody Mary Hansen asks is it possible
that we are creating dark matter by the
amount of information we are producing
making the universe aver her eyes and
artificially large or strong on the
event horizon no I would actually guess
you probably about dark energy there
because that has been proposed is that
it might be some kind of entropic effect
of the universe problem with dark matter
is that we can look back at the early
universe and we can see the dark matter
in play we can't see it in its direct
sense we see a gravity pulling on those
objects when we look back at the very
stage the universe of different ages and
we do not see an increase in dark matter
it's been they are in the same amount
since beginning the universe hmm
so we would not be a PI part of the
aspect the age of the universe dark
energy only enhances something it's been
increasing over time and that could in
some way be tied in to you know the the
process of entropy or expansion this
universe I mean obviously it is tied
into expansion but we don't know how yet
and it you gotta be really careful to
speculate on things like that
hopefully we know more about dark energy
in the near future but you know near
future might be a couple of centuries
far we know it's a new problem I
remember when I was a senior on college
going to a colloquium where well if
people was for suggesting that and I
wish I paid more attention to quite a
few of the colloquiums I went to my
senior year hydrogen cyanide asks how
plausible is no neo cylinder within the
century I should probably point out that
when they talk about only ozone was on
the show we almost always talking about
the biggest ones he suggested the island
3 or 4 and all one's even bigger than
that they don't not construct out of
steel um you know you were titanium will
Kevlar you can make them even wider
some of the only windows are actually
quite on the small side and nearly not
that much bigger than the Gateway Space
Station we have talked about back in
space ports and I do think that we will
see a a rotating Space Station you know
I would feel like before the into the
century we're gonna try to create
something at least some power buying
varsity's complainer one that you've
seen on the show quite a lot because
Brian's loaned us the clips for that and
that's not all that big of a place it
but it's probably about as big as we
could expect to build in this century it
all depends though on on how much you're
pushing for things we don't just build
these things because they're expensive
so that we have to find a way to make
them cheaper which means resourcing the
sourcing of material from space or from
the moon and we have to actually have a
reason to build something like that you
have a lot of throughput in space so I
would like to think we'll have a
rotating habitat of lutein Space Station
sometime the next couple of decades but
an actual thing that would qualify as a
habitat or permanent living space as
opposed to like a hotel or park we might
not actually get this one this century
even if we have the tech to do it
volatile achieve a just because there
has to be a demand and there might not
be stand for liberty ass and thank you
by the way I could dark energy be the
entropy of the universe writ large
quite possibly I mean as I was saying a
moment ago that is one of those ones we
have a lot of question marks about and I
said all the other dark matter is one of
those things there's wing a question
about its existence anymore but so
there's a lot more room for discussion
on pellicano G and I did want to point
this out and we did this in the the dulk
trilogy that covered dark matter dark
energy and dark flow a few years back
the term dog in physics frequently just
means we can't see it like Dark Side of
the Moon we can't see the Dark Side of
the Moon
it doesn't technically get as much light
as the quote visible side of the Moon
because it doesn't get reflection of
light off earth which is pretty
significant the full moon on earth is
very dim compared to the to the the Sun
but it is still fairly lit and the
author's a good deal brighter but the
Dark Side of the Moon is the
I mean that we can't see it gets plenty
of light dark matter dark energy dog
flow these are things that we haven't
really seen too much not really related
beyond the name doc the fact that dark
energy is the super majority of energy
in the universe and doc marrow is the
super majority of matter in the universe
can be viewed as semi coincidental
they're not assumed to have any relation
to each other they might but the only
real relation is there's a lot of them
and we don't know what they are all very
clearly yet I mean you really have to
ask a cosmologists for a legitimate
answer on this I don't really want to
speculate much but I do tend to feel
like there would be a connection with
entropy and dark energy but that's just
kind of a semi educated hunch you know
we just don't know enough yet
hmm David angle asks question during the
four phases of construction of an
orbital ring around an object with a
magnetic field does the conductor need
to be charged or will acquire a coin by
its orbital motion you could do that um
I mean all you have to do mm-hmm
say it Oprah Wings not being held up by
charge the sheath around it is being
kept apart and you're keeping the thing
spinning inside that clearly by our
using magnetic so doesn't scraping along
the outside you don't want friction
sighs something like that you know when
you're doing this with like a hose if
you have a hose to a pipe and turned it
on and so call it would get form and
stiff as all that water flowed through
but that's doing that at you know meters
per second not kilometres per second so
you wanna use my next keep it in inline
but yeah if you take a big long hoop of
metal as Julian will call up that and
spin it around it's gonna have plenty of
magnetic field just from that motion but
is the actual angle angular momentum of
that that's holding things up not the
not the magnetic field the magnetic
field just hoping the sheath not kind of
crash into it without having to touch it
with something let's go ahead and go to
break real quick and we'll be back for
some more questions in about three four
minutes so we'll be on break for a few
minutes while I refill my coffee if you
want to get up and grab yourself a drink
in a snack maybe a slice of pie and get
some more questions in for our second
half but while we're doing that I want
to introduce everyone to
more the folks who helped make SFI a
great and I thought we'd start with Evan
one of our script editors who also helps
motivate our discord solve all and is
one of the folks who helps on the live
stream chat - hey y'all my name is Evan
Schall theis I'm a degreed chemist and
I'm one of the members of the production
team here at SFI a I'm mostly involved
in our discussion meetings and editing
where I advise on nano materials like
graphene and on energy I'm also a
published historian and looking to the
past often comes in handy when
discussing future societies here at SF
IA I also have a book entitled the
Battle of the Catalonian Fields ad 451
which is about Attila the Hun and the
final years of the Western Roman Empire
anyways it's really great to be a part
in science communication like this I'm
glad you all come here to discuss and
learn thanks for watching and supporting
all of us here at SFI a and we'll see
you on our Thursday there's a joke on
the channel that s fi a actually stands
for science fiction ideas for authors
and there was more than a little truth
to that and I have to say one of the
cool parts of running the show is
getting to meet so many authors and many
of them lend their skills to help you on
the scripts like Evan or Jerry who I'm
pleased to introduce you to today hi
everybody I'm Jerry Guren one of the
channel script editors more recently a
script co-writer a few months ago I
submitted Isaac a first draft that the
team expanded and reworked and split
into the void ecology episode and parts
of the speak swells in bioships episode
and as Isaac mentioned on the void
ecology video I also wrote a companion
piece a short story called momentum
about creatures that live in the ring of
a mega Saturn type planet and the
creatures they share that environment
with and the perils that they face there
and then Isaac convinced me to record
momentum and post it on YouTube so to my
surprise I now have a youtube channel
Jerry stories and I want to thank
everybody who already checked out
momentum it's not very often that you
work really hard on something and then
you get to spend a day reading hundreds
of people if yous about
you know how good it came out and how
much they enjoyed it so I really
appreciate that that was a delightful
day so my channel is Jerry stories if
you would rather read then listen you
can look at my name on Amazon and you'll
find purple dreams the anthology in
which momentum appears and also my
medieval horror fantasy novel no one to
pray to which you'll also enjoy and
thanks again to everybody especially
Isaac and back to Isaac thanks Jerry and
thank you Evan and everybody else on the
team who sacrifices their free time to
help make this show great that includes
all of our four mods and admins too many
of whom are taking out time this Sunday
afternoon to help moderate I'll chat
heal and relay me questions folks are
asking so for theyõre sake please try to
keep polite and respectful in the chat
and try to keep the questions in a clean
easy format so they don't need to
reformat or type them before relaying
them to me I should know - they are much
more likely to pass a question on to me
if they don't have to walk hard to do it
and now back to okay and we're back next
question from Jared clat so the K level
of civilizations are immense in their
scope what's the likelihood of us
getting to k1 before some sort of
extinction event happening um just going
over what K means in this case k k1 k2
k3 Kardashev scale most you guys are
already familiar with that but if you
knew the culture scale was proposed by a
fella named Carter Chev and was Connally
and how you'd locate civilizations
astronomically so k1 is when you're
using all the energy that would hit a
planet k2 is been using all the energy
up of a stall and k3 is when you're
using all the energy of a galaxy and
these are not good measurements for
civilizations nor was there at k4 k5
actually on our Facebook forum we have a
long-standing ban on discussing k4 k5
civilizations just cuz people kept using
it as kind of a you know what would you
do if your K 10 otherwise we usually
treat 8 K 4 as being either colonized
entire super cluster or colonize the
entire absorb or universe there Hubble
valium anyway
the thing about a k1 civilization is you
could actually make the argument that
we're pretty much one line now because
we we only generate a very tiny fraction
as electrical power that we use but we
get to evoke crops all of our you know
nutrients things like that from the full
ecology of the planet and of course you
could argue that all civilization of
them is pretty much always been k1 so it
gets a bit debatable the thing about a
k1 civilization when you're using it as
how much power they get which is about 2
times 10 to the 17th watts of power
don't quote me on that the equivalent of
a bag of that'd be 200 million billion
watts you have a lot of power they all
compare to what we have now which is
only in like the tailwater agent and you
can get a lot of stuff done like that
it's assume that you have these all
these industries that are running on
that you have all these spaceships and
other things everybody on that and it
sounds good really hard to actually have
a disaster or the kind of folks are
thinking of at that point just because
if you all k1 a fully colonized planet
like that a mech monopolist and we
sometimes call that you're not that in a
vacuum you've got a big swarm of plants
the moon is fully colonized that point
in time so almost the other planets of
the solar system you're gonna have
thousands of asteroid bases so once
you've actually gotten a k1 state you
you're pretty much done same folk I mean
in terms of being threatened in a sort
of natural disaster way counts same
thing applies for k2 s you can build a
Dyson swarm a lot faster than then they
tend to be shown in fiction where it's
like after you've colonized endless
millions of wards never collecting
Empire now you get around doing a Dyson
Sphere input in fact you're probably
gonna have a Dyson swarm fully developed
inside of four or five thousand years ad
tops I would tend to think and by then
you would have colonies though around
almost everything within a few hundred
light years because just restocking
access that kind of power and you can
access that pounder Dyson swarm a lot
easier than building habitats all you do
is make really tight solar panels thin
things or meals and that's more enough
to push spaceships up to interstellar
speeds um
it's throwing them back down is a bit
harder but Co episode on excess fees and
the generation should
series for details but you don't have a
k1 by itself or k2 by itself or k3 by
itself before you fully colonize your
galaxy and total dyson you've probably
launched you and ROM and all other
places too
so again carton of squares mostly about
you know to spot these things as to
disaster being a k1 I mean it would
almost have to be a deficient one and
again that's that's the topic of this
week's episode thrust into planetary
civilizations interstellar civilizations
[Music]
ghurabaa asks will you do an episode on
strange materials like you said in the
episode metamaterials yes because exotic
material is actually one things that
want to poll and i've a media rounded
episode for a while and the delay on
that has been more sometimes with
episodes we've been playing together for
a long time but I've never sure if I
want to do them as one episode on
multiple episodes and then how to break
them up quite a lot of times when I
started writing up an episode it
actually turns into a series the black
hole trilogy we did recently which is
actually a quartet because the fleetest
always kind of follow that - that was
going to be just one episode colonizing
black holes but it seemed like we need
to redo the black hole spaceship
materials a little bit and it seemed
like we should talk about you know many
other aspects so instead of being one
episode that would have been like two
hours long it became basically four
episodes the same question when folks
ask me why we don't do anymore like 70
minute videos although we've only done
two like that the first place the
forming paradox compendium and its
predecessor flowing paradox solutions
doing really long episodes like that
besides the fact that kind of bow and
shout a little bit if you're trying to
do these things on a weekly basis it's
almost always better to split into two
so typically one episode starts getting
to be like 3540 minutes long and the in
terms of what the script looks like
that's nice not thing about breaking up
and do another episode because there's
almost always more to talk about
mark Zimmerman asks what is the best
estimate of how long it would take to
tell form vs melt well that actually we
were brainstorming that topic yesterday
for winter on Venus one of our episodes
for in September or the October so we
were writing that I was earlier this
week using the Balch method for solar
sail was in front of
minions to cool down by itself that
takes a couple of centuries to get it
cool down at that point in time then you
begin your tale for me and walk and how
long it takes to terraform things would
look at that in springtime on malls but
you're almost always we're looking at
many centuries you can only do it so
fast you know something like
nanotechnology Universal assemblers
because if you try to do it much faster
and those will let you do a lot faster
but you got to get power down to them
they produce waste heat you know they
are going to melt that planet if you try
to do it too fast you're never gonna
drop great goo on a planet and turn it
into you know a nice green ball then I'm
gonna live on with force and trees and
in minutes or days it's gonna take you
decades even then at the best case
scenario otherwise the amount of heat
being used is going to melt that planet
at least wherever you're trying to build
there including your robots good mundo
enjoy mispronouncing attack good mundo
ego gun Munson ask how much potential
energy is non galactic cluster later be
our only visible units you know universe
if all the mass would drop into a single
black hole in the middle um I would have
to actually sit down and walk out how
many joules that was all kilograms but
there's around a trillion solar mass in
all galaxies and I think that the
cluster itself has less than ten times
that so loose for your 10 trillion solar
masses and I guess is tendeth it was a
ten to thirty two times ten to thirty
kilograms so ten to thirty nine ten to
thirty seven about 10 to 50 joules plus
or minus norm attitude but in black hole
wise because that that event horizon is
linear to mass if it's got ten trillion
times the mass of the sun which would
normally about three kilometers in
diameter for the black hole I think
that's about that then it would be ten
trillion times that I thought he
trillion kilometres which I believe
would be what that would be three light
years in diameter he somebody would have
to want to check that so
call me on that one let's see next
question
John Joe Dunn asks what are the chances
that we live in a simulation a la the
matrix are similar I feel it will
certainly be I feel be entirely
impossible or 100 so 100 cents Alton hmm
our odds of living in a simulation I
always quote has been 33% and there's a
very simple reason I always say 33% I
think we discussed that it recently in
the anthropic principle the principle in
difference tells us that when we have
plausible options is like the mediocrity
principle it's one of these things you
use when you really don't know much if
you know where your plausible options
are but you don't really know how they
relate to each other
like I know many people like Coke and
many people like Pepsi so I'm going to
assume it's 5050 until I have evidence
to indicate otherwise you've got three
options for simulation either one you
just can't do it
you know they die off or it just turns
out to be impossible to simulate people
that accurately that's option one option
two is that you can do it and but you
really don't like to simulate people
much an option three is that you do it
and you can do it and you do it all the
time
so each of those is basically a 33%
option and then a little bit at the top
on that one because even if you're
simulating millions of universes there
is still one real one and you've a
chance of being in that so just a little
under a thought but then again you have
to ask how realistic is that and I'd say
for the first one I don't think that
it's very plausible anymore to say that
you can't simulate a universe I don't
think we'd go or simulate a war anyway
simulate the human mind because
technically simulation hypothesis only
requires you simulate one human mind
and realistically enough in the
surroundings that they believe it's real
but I do believe that's technically
feasible and I can't imagine sheep
degrees and what we go extinct before
that although the alternative a lamb
would be that you and that second one
you can do it which jump tically want to
you know Skynet takes to the world he
can do the simulation but he has no
motivation to simulate us as an
ancestral simulation and but the other
ones too we looked at and I want to say
reality and simulation of post-scarcity
series one things we point out is that
most your reasons for simulating people
don't really hold up to inspection
because there's always an energy cost
caste getting rather than energy and I
don't need extreme realism for a fantasy
simulation or historical simulation or
even modeling things for data and
research you don't really need to
simulate an entire planet with that
degree of accuracy reasons why you kind
of might as if you're you're you know
you're high-tech civilization and all
your kids are being born to a
post-scarcity universe and they're you
know between the lazy troll so you
instead raise them in a you know a
relatively advanced period but not once
so advanced from the past that they
would just assume they were in a
simulation and that to me you know I
feel like that second category that you
have the ability to do it but you really
don't do it much is probably going to be
the most likely one I do not think one a
simulation but as I play out to people
and the bigger question is not all we
know simulation but doesn't actually
matter you know we've always assumed
that there are higher levels of reality
and all metal OCI's throughout history
and didn't make us less real in this one
let's see mmm next question Oh dysentery
Joe as you guys have the strangest names
I know I pointed out before it's a
question Isaac big fan of the channel
what MOS for you former 95 bottle 31
Bravo here and I'm gonna have to
apologize don't actually move what 31
Bravo is I'm thinking comms but I think
that's it
mos so military occupation school I came
up with yes for any what's your job in
the military there's a whole bunch of
those mine was 13 Bravo I was a soldier
with Bravo two three FA and then that
was my main you know obviously you could
switched around all the times and and
that was in geese in Germany by the way
that we were mostly stationed out of
other than or deployment to Iraq for
fourteen months
gisun is a great place but it still bit
north of Frankfort
um but 13 Bravo and that is all Chile
although I actually spent a lot more of
our time doing I would say we did a lot
of infantry walk by over lead very large
cannons when you occupy in a country and
they found out light was decent
paperwork and computer stuff so I tend
to end up doing a lot of our admin walk
to as well as lava or training and
technical stuff on
all of our equipment when the when the
war got started all wars we would there
was a lot of new equipment we were
calling it our RFI rapid for your issue
new equipment that have been designed
probably hadn't been you know thoroughly
test and trained on and so you know it
been tested but not really for enough
spectrum to rapidly train people in and
I usually got stuck both for my own
company we call them batteries no chilly
but company and and a lot of the other
folks in all battalions and the others
helping on the training of a lot of that
equipment because it was kind of new and
technical and so but yeah actual MOS was
13 Bravo um let's see next question
Starbuck yes Isaac are you Northland
motional belt or and are you looking
forward to the next season it expands I
am looking forward to I was very happy
to hear that the expanse had been on
cancelled and that Amazon had picked it
up and yeah it's a great show the book
series pretty good too I mean well the
book series quite good I've been trying
not to read ahead of it though cuz with
like Game of Thrones I found that it was
more fun to be stalled or to actually
like the last few seasons of Game of
Thrones even a lot folks felt that kind
of gone downhill which I agree in some
ways but because I had not already read
the books was a bit of a surprise to me
and even with the expands they started
divulging a bit from the TV show I do
from the book show almost right from the
get-go but I don't want to read ahead
and they'll cuz I'm sure they're gonna
borrow some more material from it but
I'd say in terms of factions I tend to
favor I actually think the homeless talk
with he's stupid
especially the TV show in terms of the
factions both should not be you know
both has a poppy is like thirty
billionaire as shown has been a bit of a
dystopia that doesn't make sense to me
when you have spaceships going around
this same thing like the belt they all
the one waddle there's no reason to ever
be low on water when you have fusion
power it's it's kind of sort of a
especially the way we see them
museum when they run from point A to
point B with the engines on full power
hmm and that comes up in I mean a lot of
good fictions like that if you look at a
bank of what's doing
they have cheap interstellar space
travel
levitation capability with their
suspenseful fields there was no reason
why they haven't mined out you know ice
asteroids from forth about the solar
system and brought them back onto dune
and I'm aware that in legal books in do
and they have a creature called a
soundtrack a sand trout that encompasses
encapsulate that water but to hide it
from everybody but plot who was in the
in terms of science for science fiction
or nothing new it doesn't necessarily
mean it's a bad series so this to me
those could be problematic but I think
the motions though I maybe like them a
little bit better because they you know
they seem to be more motivated to get
stuff to hunt hmm thank you can't go
ahead question from M Ron do you think
NASA or SpaceX poor land people forced
on the moon NASA landed people on the
moon 50 years ago last week so I would
say they they won but they they've got a
bit of a head start the ground and six
times if the question is when will NASA
next land people on the moon or will be
SpaceX that's kind of hard to say um I I
think if spacex starts having a mission
really in place that looks like it could
do something on the moon it's gonna have
at least one country who wants to tag
along for that might be NASA it might be
you know the you yes ESA might do it OS
maybe Japan who knows China there's so
many options there but III would not
imagine the first trip back to the moon
will be a commercial one just because
it's so much preferable to get that big
check from one of the governments to let
them bring their own astronauts and crew
along instead it's because it's not
likely to be a profitable mission
initially you know you but we actually
had a survey on that on the Facebook
forum about when should we next go back
to the moon and I was pleasantly
surprised that most people did select
one of the options said we shouldn't
bother going back with a manned mission
into a ready to set up a permanent base
already do industrial usages of it until
they actually know the point not just a
plan to flag and collect
rocks although those rocks were actually
very handy um let's see
I just feel like it's mean to say that
adjustment up to collect rocks you know
it's it's part of sizes you know
grabbing sample so let's see just scroll
back up to find some more questions
ego ass question how do we move
consonants we did talk about that a
little bit in the matryoshka broads
episode when you're trying to actually
move a constant obviously this is
extreme engineering you've got to you
try to cut into something that's really
quite deep that's already floating on a
thing of metal molten metal at you know
high high high pressures so what you
probably do if you actually want to move
a continent up if you're just trying to
lift it up is just kind of dig down and
they'll create a layout or net and a
mesh underneath it and then we'll lift
and you could actually do that with a
very very large pair of overall rings
just kind of lift it up there I don't
even like think about how thick those
tethers would have to be if they were
made of super materials like graphene
but that is possible the other one of
course if you wanted to transplant an
entire continent or an island into a
space habitat that's doing rotational
spin that is a lot trickier and I'm not
sure you can actually do that without
breaking gravity for at least a couple
of minutes so you're doing something
like that but you basically you lift it
up and then you begin to accelerated on
a spiral away from all so that gravity
was dropping and at some point you have
to flip that thing over and get it
spinning on its own and mmm I actually
might be interesting topic today one day
but I think we did talk about an
evacuation or a bit too
let's see um who asked that question see
no way are these coming in from discord
and they live chitchat I think which I'm
using today it kind of jumps around I
mean when looking at this somebody asked
about simulations producing heat or
rather do the simulators even have to
worry about heat
and in an ancestor simulation yes they
do when you're running computers they
are going to produce heat as a
by-product and you get rid of that heat
so you also have to power them you know
find that power and get rid of the heat
from it radiate away and that's going to
limit how sophisticated a simulation you
can do if you have all the power and
energy and and the materials computer
chips you want it's you know that's
always a limitation on you and you're
never gonna get fancier than you have to
for your purpose in a simulation you do
not have the same physical laws
necessarily as you do in the simulating
universe you know I go a Nintendo games
we can walk off one side of the screen
and pop back up on the other side that's
a that's a sopia universe if you would
in an ancestral simulation though which
is what the simulation hypothesis is
specifically about it's not whether or
not we live in a simulations about
whether we live in an ancestor
simulation a previous incarnation of
that simulation that's been you know
either is exactly identical to how it
happened in history always pretty close
to it in those you're not going to have
big physical law changes you can do a
simulation of a universe where there's
no entry for instance we could use
something like that mmm or we could do
one way or you won't have two dimensions
for instance or four dimensions but it
wouldn't be an ancestor simulation
you're not gonna have anything like if
you're trying to simulate your own past
for whatever reason or something very
close to your own past
you can't go changing around physical
laws all that much things gonna really
screw up in your simulation so for the
simulation hypothesis specifically
because it is ancestor simulations there
would be entropy in play in the
simulating universe and keep in mind
that is one of the basis for why it's
assumed that you're much more likely to
being a fake simulation in the
simulation hypothesis is the idea that
you are basically colonizing by creating
simulations you create millions and
millions of millions of simulations and
there's so many of them that you're more
likely to be in one of those in the V
award if you're just running a physical
simulation of how things work at the
speed of lights 10% higher or lower and
a simulation then why are you making a
billion of them you know that's not
gonna really make sense so you don't
have a huge pool of probability at your
fake one
no no ask is Isaac from Wyoming no I'm
from Ohio I'm still wearing a bolo tie
I was actually born in California let's
see you've got time for a couple more
questions before we finish out for the
day somebody's if I can find a good one
Abu Diab knee ass in the space was
episode you often reference how our
descendants might create it
after you expressed life extension why
did you choose to say you would be you
you would do this after our generation
I'm not sure I understand a question
unfortunately with life extension as
well as bio engineering it's a it's a
point that our B degree makes a lot that
I'm quite fond of repeating all medicine
is life extension technology and I would
generally tend to breathe that I'll say
that all agricultural livestock breeding
is also genetic manipulation and genetic
engineering it's just you know done with
less skill and I think that one of the
reasons why you would tend a while and
do things like the space way on
obviously full of the value of space
well the one reasons why you're doing
that is that we are creating ecosystems
when you're creating really complex
systems one way or another that's gonna
act in an organic fashion and it's not
very commonly mentioned but I think we
did bring it up in cyborgs the episode
cyborgs is that term cybernetics
actually has to do with the you know
workings of dynamic systems it has
nothing to do with robots specifically
and within these systems we saw creating
them whether you're keeping the machines
or AI or bioengineered things or
whichever it is these are effectively
going to become an ecosystem and so it's
not so much saying how we're going to do
it that we're going to create
carbon-based life in space it's more the
acknowledgment that after all along a
period of time of these things growing
in complexity scope and usage and hang
around for many centuries you're gonna
have an ecosystem that develops let's
find one last question
Ryan Baker asks how far away are we as a
species from mind uploading and how do
you think it will be with seeded forests
um I don't think we're actually all that
far away from mind uploading it's not
something I expected in this generation
though the trick is that mind uploading
is not actually as useful for most
people which we tend to think most of us
do not really want to make a extra copy
of ourselves it's going to hang around
and we don't really have any particular
desire to be a copy that gets born doubt
you stick most people will stick in
their own body as long as we can and
generally that level of Technology and
accuracy and resolution is gonna let you
do that
whereas most likely come up with Oly
mind uploading besides basic
experimentation with it and is gonna be
probably two forms the force should be
trying to bring back folks who had been
frozen or it's really damaged and that
that body was no longer an option like
right now we can freeze people but we
can't resurrect them but we could scan a
brain again that's kind of a story
concept for the Baba for series by
density low we mentioned all the other
that I guess has a new book coming out
the other purposeful mind uploading is
really more like a backup of your own
mind and you can use if all the other
things we discussed but backup seems
like the most likely one it not because
you really see that as a real
immortality for yourself but somebody's
gonna take over raising your kids or
running your business for you something
happens so it's kind of an insurance
policy and of course you can use it for
all those other things but for the
resource to happen you need a lot of
examples a lot of cases a lot of funding
going into it a lot of usage and I'm not
seeing a big push for that as something
people gonna want to do an awful lot so
we could actually that go fairly slowly
even if the technologies they are just
because it's not really attracting a lot
of interest the same reason in some ways
space has been slowed down for us we've
had the capacity build a moon base since
then the moon landings really but there
hasn't been much of a point doing it so
we you know you even slowed down doing
it you wait until the time's right and
so how often you use something is a big
factor that like Moore's law computers
getting faster and faster
one of the biggest reasons for that is
because they're so useful so immediately
useful so there's constant expansion of
the market to more and more sectors you
know when I was a kid very few people
with a PC and it will pretty much brand
new things
now everybody has computers all over the
place and that's that creates that bit
of that exponential curve about you know
that that Moore's law is about because
the increased usage of it the creased
desire on profit billion that is what is
driving exponential increases and how
much research and how many researchers
go into that field and that's one of
these is what I tend to dislike a lot
like growth laws that we see like
Moore's Law is because they are seen in
effect but they're the correlation not
causation then I explain you why isn't
in science noticing a trend is not the
same as explaining what that trend is
caused by and yeah so I think mind
uploading is something we're going to
resource the next few decades I don't
know that it's gonna be all that popular
quite a while afterwards so that'll be
our last question for today and we will
do this again next month and we do have
an episode coming up on Thursday that is
as I said interstellar threats uh I'm
sorry threats to interstellar and
interplanetary civilizations and so we
will see you then thank you everyone for
joining us today as mentioned if I
didn't get your question or you miss the
live stream feel free to leave it in the
comments below and I'll try to get to it
afterwards you can also post it over to
any of our forums on Facebook discord or
reddit where you can join in the
discussion with the rest the audience of
science and futurism with Isaac author
on any of the fascinating topics we look
at on the show all go over to Isaac all
for dotnet to join in the forum there or
support the show by donating or buying
some awesome SFI a motion dies and all
those options are linked in the video
description thanks again for joining us
and we'll see you on Thursday
you
