hello I'm Isaac Arthur host of science
and futurism with Isaac Arthur I'm here
today to advocate for the Sens Research
Foundation on project for awesome 2017
charity drive the Sens Research
Foundation is focused on repairing the
damages of Aging and developing
strategies to combat them chewie force
or even eliminate the frailty and
diseases of Aging and extend a length
and quality of the human lifespan over
on my channel we've spent a lot of time
discussing the concept of extending the
human lifespan the technologies being
developed to do that and the impact it
would have on our civilization that
impact would be enormous potentially
allowing folks to live far longer lives
in fall better health and it's not just
about that he you live to see your 100th
birthday or meet your
great-great-grandchildren but still
having the energy and vigor to play with
them if developed it will be one of the
most significant technologies we ever
had and benefit us in countless ways
while we've imagined fountains of youth
for centuries such life extension
technology is beginning to move from the
realm of mythology and science fiction
into genuine science that is
investigating all the individual facets
of Aging
a far more complex process than we used
to assume and walking towards various
treatment paths each aiming to enforce a
type of aging damage strategies for
engineered negligible senescence Sens
may be developed in our own lifetimes
and the Sens Research Foundation is
working hard to make sure that happens
there's no limit to what we can achieve
if we walk together and set our minds to
it and I can think of few causes more
worthy of focus than this I'd encourage
you to vote for this video or even a
donate to help support sends and you can
learn more about them at their website
sends that org the future is an amazing
place that gets closer every day and
with your support Sens will give us all
a chance to live to see it thank you for
your time and generosity and have a
great day
you
