[Music]
good afternoon everyone and welcome to
the sfia monthly livestream q a
we'll get started in just a moment but
go ahead and start getting your
questions in the chat window so our
moderators can start relaying those to
me as soon as we start please try to
keep the questions concise and watch
your spelling and try to be polite to
others in the chat
we usually go for about an hour so you
probably want to grab a drink and a
snack though we'll take a break about
halfway through too
with all that said welcome and let's get
started
good afternoon everyone and welcome to
our live stream q a for science future
with isaac arthur the halloween edition
so
we joined in the studio today by myself
the mad hatter and my wife who is our
red queen so
uh without too much further ado we're
going to get to your questions um i see
any questions ready if you haven't
already got them into the live stream go
ahead start putting them in the chat we
know now
do we have any questions this time
we do not we are waiting for questions
come in i shall randomly chat to myself
for a little bit
so
as usual the hallway edition the key is
to get questions in as quickly as
possible
uh in as vividly readable that fashion
as possible so all right do we have any
now i see one andrew hartley thank you
very much what personal rights and
freedoms with the advancement of
technology do you think we should be
paying closer heat to privacy wise that
don't get enough attention
what personal rights and freedoms
i guess there's the expectation of what
you're allowed to actually have
uh in terms of secret right we'd say
people say well i got privacy it's very
much built in there and say well first
depends on which country you're in but
in the us constitution for instance you
got a
assumption of privacy for like your
papers and documents but not for what
goes on your front lawn that's not
private for instance but what goes on
with a closed window behind that more so
and we have not really adapted a lot
with some of the modern technology i
would say
the biggest one and it's my kind of
guess for how things will uploading
downloading is that no one can use your
photograph without your permission
and probably an opt in in most cases so
that what's essentially going to happen
a lot of those cases would be um
like
artificial intelligence for scanning
facing recognizing photo id would
automatically pin you anything blow your
image any photo anywhere all right and
unless you say yes that it wouldn't
unblow your image and that's probably
how we get around people being to upload
other people without their permission
which is obviously ranges from mild
irritation of someone taking a
photograph when you're looking awkward
to you know obviously very bad stuff
like we see with people sometimes uh
taking inappropriate photographs of
partners or so forth that they break up
with in post so hope that answers the
question there
okay we have a question from raven609
and a super chat thank you raven happy
halloween isaac what sort of suit would
a person need to walk on the moon titan
thank you
well saturn's moon titan differs from
our moon in that they are
fairly similar in mass uh in gravity on
the surface titan's more massive than
the moon uh but it's also less dense so
it results in a fairly similar surface
gravity um but the big difference of
course is that our moon is airless the
atmosphere there is less than one part
per million of what earth says right
whereas titan's atmosphere of memory saw
is actually a little bit more dense than
ours it's a higher pressure and it's all
very very cold methane ammonia stuff
like that so not stuff you could breathe
you know if you're willing to breathe in
stuff that was colder than an orca
and um i would say that the key i need
space to there is not worried about so
much leakage from you into it because
over pressure your leakage is going to
be it into you and so you're basically
trying to proof your suit uh against
higher pressure so probably more in the
like
diving suit scuba type variety but low
pressure because not that much of a
difference
all right next question is from ivan
yvonne fessler thank you yvonne for your
super chat and he says is there copper
on the moon if not is there any other
conductive metal that we could use such
as silver
hmm um well there's there's iron uh and
nickel there for sure uh there's a lot
of aluminum i don't know what the actual
amounts of copper or silver oil we would
expect it to be very similar to what the
amount in earth's surface is because the
the current working assumption is that
the old crust of the earth uh
was smashed up into orbit and a bunch of
it went off in deep space a bunch of it
fell back down on earth and a bunch of
it formed the moon and that's usually
our current assumption about that
content so
and and what we found so far there is a
pretty good correlation uh of what's on
the moon and what's on earth's surface
the earth surface has a lot of chunning
going on from tectonics whereas the
moon's got a lot of you know commentary
and asteroid bombardment so there are
differences but you won't have any
problem finding conductive metals there
how much copper silver is probably pale
that earth there's a comment that
there's crude oil on the moon would you
like to elaborate on that crude oil um i
would think probably not uh you might
have methane buckets
oh yes yeah titan does one gigantic gas
ball um
you know early stage economy uh in in
you know planetary space it is actually
handy to have access to something like
methane on the surface that's one reason
why we're interested in titan is you go
there air will break uh set up a blimp
floating on the top of the atmosphere uh
and uh just kind of suck some air in as
you go so that uh you
could basically build a space station
that was sucking up all this propellant
and uh you know for deeper sources and
stuff it really is beneficial
to have power systems on that you're
like a nuclear generator there that got
you oxygen and rocket fuel that you used
to power your ships back in system so
um i don't think of it as a really good
you know the fuel source itself though
we're trying to move away from chemical
rockets is because they're not powerful
enough we're not really worried about
environmental considerations with our
fossil fuels there so much as we're
worried about uh they're just not
powerful enough
so
matthew campbell says will i ever be as
cool as you are i i would love to
attribute this to your costume but i saw
this comment pop up before you came on
screen so sorry jeff matt campbell yes
sort of a long time editor so i don't
know yes no
neville
[Applause]
uh as a head note um we have a lot of
crew that are known for this or that and
uh matt is tends to be you know the
those these one-liners we do to open the
show up each time you know we you you
know this episode is brought to you by x
the one liner that brings the episode in
and then the music i would say probably
about a quarter of the good ones at
least on mats if not well probably about
a quarter of the moments and about half
the good ones on that so we got mine
deg12
k says given that gravity tends to draw
all familiar matter together i'm sorry
given that gravity tends to draw all
matter together into a roughly round
object shape why do most solar systems
and galaxies level out into a flat
formation shouldn't there be a variety
of orbits yeah that's actually a good
question uh first there actually is a
decent variety of orbits in our solar
system it's like pluto is like 19
degrees off on declaration you get a lot
of oak cloud objects that are way more
uh off that plane
but if you're wondering what happens
imagine you've got a big cloud of gas
that initially starts forming up there
that cloud
in one way or another has a certain
angular momentum that's higher right in
one direction or another it's just there
and uh it doesn't matter which direction
it is there's there's a slight tilt
right as that thing starts to pack on
down and things wander into each other
that angular momentum is conserved so
it's going to neutralize out until you
basically add it in one direction or
another that plane is going to be set
same for galaxies anything that results
in that particular area having a slight
kick up compared to another if you look
at the galaxies nearby us they are not
aligned with us in their terms their
planes each these big pockets of
primordial galaxy gas right were
separate and formed up with their own
little averages in our case we got uh we
got ours and if you look at our solar
system for instance we are not even
vaguely lined up with the galactic plane
uh if you look at earth orbiting around
us the the the sun as we go around the
galaxy it looks like a weird corkscrew
uh going off at the angle it's very
cockeyed so
um but that's what happens this thing's
falling to play science though
it's uh one of the problems we have in
the case of something like dark matter
and why we talk about a halo if you look
at the halo around the galaxy which
roughly spherical is because the dark
matter never runs into each other they
don't they don't bang into each other
and then kind of average out they just
have a little bit of net momentum all on
the same consoled angular plane and
that's basically why we have a spherical
collection of halo matter and that is
the majority of the matter of the galaxy
so by and large the galaxy is actually
spherical
it's just the non-dark matter portion is
mostly that big plane
what advice would you have for someone
who's 46 years old has a high school
degree and
likes physics but isn't sure if they
want to
get a master and a doctorate due to the
cost how could they continue to dive
deeper into the subject
uh well i'd say if you're on a high
school diploma you're up one on me i got
my ged um
um but uh let's see
you know
it's really hard to go back to grad
school uh in my experience for most
fields when you're over that 20s age you
just not want to go back to college i
didn't i thought about going back to
finish up my phd when i got out and i've
about twice many credit hours you need
for a master's but you know a couple
years short of what you need for a phd
and the idea of going back after i got
out of the military and just doing
more time in college was so
no
so if you're in that mindset yeah go
back to college if you need to get that
start if you're not comfortable doing
that don't ever be on the question you
can't get an education without college i
learned a ton in undergrad and grad a
ton and it gave me a very nice start but
this was pre-internet you were still
doing it at a library back then but
there were a lot more resources out
there are brilliant we always plug
brilliant upon sponsors maybe they're
all that good they're a very good
program but um i've learned way more
after grad school about physics and math
than i did while i was in school and not
because i was lazy or my teachers
weren't good it's just you can keep
absorbing material once you learn how to
learn
i'm seeing some great comments come in
about the outfit and people are saying
why are yours
yours oh okay
classic mad hatter
great outfit choice someone wants to
know how long it took you to choose the
outfit
um i've been poking out the idea for
probably a couple of weeks wasn't say a
couple weeks before i but then once i
actually landed on i pretty much went on
amazon and bought them it was mostly
trying to convince me to wear a crazy
outfit too yeah there were quite a few
but the ones where you kind of landed on
manhattan such a perfect combination of
the red queen yes so
very happy to dress up as a queen or a
princess there we go
always aim for what you know you can
actually get a good couple is gown on
yes having some difficulties with my
hairstyle here sorry
sj mckeown says hello from the uk i
almost got the wrong time for
this because our clocks changed today oh
my gosh daylight savings time um
that got me to thinking what time zone
would an o'neill cylinder around the
earth have
that's a good question i also forgot
about the time zone we haven't does that
that's this weekend isn't it
did the time change today i don't know
if it did or not we should check that um
i bet it may have i
my computer still says it's 4 14.
my clock says that but yeah i think all
of those automatically update in the
house now it might be automatic yeah i'm
not sure if i actually have any manual
but what about the one up there that's
plugin one it says 413 okay so if it has
happened it hasn't actually happened if
it has happened we are in a different
time and if i was dressed up as the
rabbit from alice i'm going to keep my
pocket watch out and treat to check the
time say i'm late
i can't remember what the question was
what's the question something about
a time change you know what i'm just
gonna have to
because is the crown just causing you to
respond
my crown fell off
oh yo sodos and time zones i think that
they because they're going to roll
around the planet constantly so if they
were changing time zones you know a low
orbit one would have to change its time
zone every 90 minutes sorry
you'd have to change it 24 times every
90 minutes
because it's going to go out and plant
that often what a geostationary i think
one's up to geostationary and a lot of
them probably would be at geostationary
that would be like your first place you
build them all um
and would probably end up as uh on the
same time zone somebody else but my
guess is we will actually go away from
time zones in favor of just using utc
and like if you lived in say if we went
gmt right right now it's eight or nine
o'clock in the evening in england where
it's like four or five about four
o'clock here in ohio and new york right
california it's like one in the
afternoon um if we went with the gmt of
where britain's at then you would just
get the habit of saying when it was you
know uh noon in or 12 o'clock in in gmt
or utc time that would be morning here
in ohio so i just say it was 12 o'clock
morning you know that's what it is
morning noon and and evening and
midnight would remain the same local
time zone but you start thinking them as
a different number
and this is not
like an embedded concept we had going on
for millennia the times the day is very
much a modern new
regular clock thing so
i don't think that would be all that
hard for us to adjust to the idea that
there was just a time there was
regardless of what time zone you're in
and i think that's probably what's going
to happen with time whether or not
people still start doing it locally who
knows i'm sure you'd have holdouts you
know same as we keep using the imperial
system because you know everybody switch
over to metric and we think metric sucks
because it does
we have a few people that are a little
more up with the modern times than we
are and they said that america changes
their clocks next week doing something
okay that's good now
that's particularly because we have
elections the first well the first
tuesday after the first monday of every
every uh november is an election in the
united states and locally too and those
get very screwed up by a time change
right beforehand so
keeping that in mind shouldn't even see
a bill goes forward saying don't change
the time zones
i signed on all right kellen wong says
how would we build a wormhole network
and what would be a realistic galactic
empire
what would a realistic galactic empire
be like with a woman network
um
i mean the only well babylon five there
you go that's your example of it i was
trying to give a tv show that had i went
to ds9 and of course at the same time
you have babylon five on there they use
hyperspace and they have a whole network
system for it stargate it's another good
one like that but the best one that i i
think hands down it's not tv show peter
hamilton's commonwealth saga the first
uh the first couple of books jesus
unchained and pandora's star actually
thinks they're around pandora's stone
and judas unchained
has an empire that's grown up with uh
with um the world war networks uh and i
would just reference you to that because
it's awesome it's a great series and it
talks basically about how you would
actually do those i think a lot better
plant-based ones i gave installgate for
wormhole based networks babylon 5 style
probably
kang says do you see a future where we
travel between the stars by putting our
consciousness on a laser and sending it
to another star system
truth be told no um
we i mean i could see us doing that in
some cases for digital digital uploaded
minds um but at the same time that's a
lot of data right and i mean i don't
know how exact a state you really need
to have i imagine that you could
probably compress that a lot like your
dna that's a billion plus bits of data
but you can compress that down a lot
especially if you're using one strand of
human dna as your base templates and
then just everybody's deviations off of
that you could probably get a few
billion people onto less than
a
few terabytes of hard drive that was
poured out of the air um but there's a
lot of compression to do that there's
probably like you do with human memory
too but that's kind of hard to say until
we've actually got some practice with it
if you couldn't compress that signal ub
truck you are trying to send a laser
beam uninterrupted over many light years
which requires a lot of redundancy okay
something like 10 to the 18 bits of data
that's that's a lot of bandwidth to be
sitting that way that's interceptable
people can hijack that um there's a lot
of things to go around with that whereas
a big old whole disc where you store
down at roughly atomic size
that strikes me you know yeah it takes a
lot to get there but you know you
probably some very fast ships being
pushed by laser beams uh with the same
level of integrity that would just add
like temperature onto your journey time
i have a feeling that if i had a maid
that had done my hair that i would have
her head chopped off off with her head
i i could i could believe that too
murph johnson
thank you for your super chat
you often practice a preface by saying
barring any new physics well
in what other areas might we actually
learn new physics breakthrough areas to
watch for
so physics to watch for
um
the biggest thing for me is always going
to be anything involving neutrinos or
dark matter because they're weakly
interacting particles anything at all
that we can do to weakly interact with
those or more less weakly interact with
those to find out what they are anything
we learn to expand on dark energy and uh
those be the two big ones
improvements with uh blocking magnetic
fields magnetic permeability uh be a big
one and it lets us do
non-omnidirectional emission of gravity
and then of course you know lets us
reflect
uh
reflect gamma rays that would be another
big one but that's not really new
physics that's just probably going to
require much new materials
um
and then of course anything at all that
lets us actually play with alternate
dimensions would be the areas i think
that are
plausible you know they'd be shocking
that they'd be outside of mount known
physics but they strike me as plausible
scenarios whereas with a lot of things i
wouldn't expect us to find them just
because you'd expect it already traces
of them visible to us you know it's it's
like finding out there are little
portals to other universes that are
already existence naturally you there
are there are telltale signs things like
that would tend to have
if they were matching up to other
universes so
all right albert jackson says good
afternoon isaac how do you think
computers and or their interfaces will
change as bcis and similar methods such
as augmented reality are adopted for
input in place of our current ones what
was the first part of the question
computers and interfaces changing as we
as bcis
or similar methods yeah one thing i
always keep in mind on stuff like this
is is when i was a kid one of the most
popular
songs on mtv and i i kind of grew up on
mtv back when that was the major way you
saw astronauts land on the moon
um
it was there's a song called video kill
the radio star and they always talked
about how you really just didn't see as
many people in it's uh you know like
silent film got completely replaced by
tv but radio and so i was thinking that
you'd see that with radio
um but radio stuck around they use
almost as big as it used to be small in
each market where something like
newspaper newspapers have been slowly
dying as a medium while a lot of the
style has remained uh but i still got a
copy of the newspaper sitting right
there like right underneath that light
that no one can see off screen that you
can see probably lighting my hand up um
and uh
youtube probably is a temporary thing in
terms of this particular this format but
something like it's definitely gonna
stay i'm not gonna go back to the
classic three networks and cable tv
approach to creating you know easy
access media to people uh what those
would be is always hard to guess if i do
guess i won't tell you because i don't
want to get stuck in when i was doing it
first then i can tell everybody um
always profiteer off it where you can't
fast um but uh i would say with bci's
our assumption that we would suddenly
not have keyboards right or not have
models say well i don't need to to to
look at my keyboard anymore and type on
it and see what goes up the model you
say well you don't have a model or
keyboard at all you become the
peripheral with that computer you know
you're interfacing very directly with it
but there's still a minor on your
eyeball because you have to use your
brain yeah you've got a contact or a
simulator thing going directly into your
norms that shows you the screen right
um
but the biggest one would be that you
know faces things i think we'd see
screens stick around for a long time and
still be around two to some degree
anyway uh just like tvs didn't replace
billboards entirely um but i think you
would see a switch over mostly that
visual interface and how to either your
hands or your eyes in terms of where
you're focusing or blinking to control
that interface better
so who is your favorite
um
galactic emperor in science fiction
well if you're a 43 can you know what
the answer that's going to have to be uh
i think that although they actually gave
him a they named recently neof that was
horrible that was like when they did
that with emperor palpatine they called
him shiv
shiv palpatine they didn't even need a
first name
um but uh besides
recent authors and directors ruining the
star wars setting again um
um i would say probably emperor
palpatine or the emperor from 40k are
very awesome i'm actually kind of fond
of the the cleon emperors in the uh in
the new foundation series i don't want
to poke at the tv show too much because
kind of getting there but there's a lot
of change over like if you knew the
foundation
it's the exact opposite the foundation
series by asimov is like no action there
was no
action in there and where it is action
it's mostly to point out that action is
stupid i don't know and personalities
don't matter that's the whole point you
know it's the system grinds on
mathematically with minor tweaks but the
show's good in me the actual effects on
it and one things i did like they
adapted in there is uh if you've seen
this they have a sequence of uh clones
they they basically the king clones
himself and he raises himself right has
been done before they do a four or three
stage version where they got the baby
the actual emperor and the past temple
so the one in training etc and that's
actually an interesting approach i don't
know if i've seen that done before
specifically
so i'd say at the moment that's my most
interesting one to look at but i'd still
say my favorite galactic emperor uh was
not so much zafad bieberbox the
president from hitchhiker's guide to the
galaxy but rather the crazy old man is
cat who lived on the abandoned planet
and was insane that we used to go talk
to to get big answers from from
hitchhiker's got the galaxy so
seeing the cheshire cat emerge
all over the screen
the screen over there went to sleep
um
so
albert jackson thanks you for the very
detailed in-depth answer to his question
about the bci's you're welcome outboard
i i hope i actually answered it
he says it was a great answer
mark zimmerman thank you for your super
chat he says from a writer is there any
way we could avoid the environmental
impacts of mass modern day air travel
levels of rocket launches
yeah um
with rocket launchers we're going up to
that scale i think that's
that is one of the big reasons why i
tend to think that open rings and mass
drive approaches would be big because
those are very low it's not just their
low energy costs they're very low impact
right you're not going to see the big
fireballs going through the sky you
think a place like trantor from from um
from foundation uh as ecmanopolis or the
uh terra from 40k or some of the other
ones
those plants would have millions of
ships leaving them constantly and they
are most of them more massive and faster
than shuttles you can see the space
shuttle coming in if you're anywhere
near there you can see it leaving for
100 miles around or more right uh
imagine a million ships doing that all
day long that'd be kind of irritating
but it wouldn't be too irritating
because you'd very soon be uh born to
death by all the backup heat from all
those ships going up and down uh which
so very shortly irritating
and then irritated and then toast yes
right yeah yeah so you get a warming
feeling kind of like itchy that up to
toasty and bony um
but you probably instead then at that
point you'd have to have really
controlled limited amounts of launches
uh and then you do almost all your mass
stuff by rail as it were which is a
tether you'd use a tether to a space
elevator an orbital ring or a mass
driver taking out the atmosphere um at
the same time another option for that
personal transport is ram jets uh we
were talking about scramjets actually
but we talked about that in the uh space
planes episode that you do the microwave
beaming you beam the power in and
instead of you're not powering the ship
you are literally
shooting the two scramjet engines on the
side of it with microwaves and it just
heats that engine up and the air that
comes in from the geometry of it blows
out the back the scramjet the fastest
planes we have is nothing but a big
heater the stove pipe we call it whose
shape is designed to shove air in where
it gets heated and flies out the back
there's nothing complex to it
you run out of fuel very quickly that
way so the outside source of the
microwaves is much more efficient plus
when you take the thing off they coast
they don't crash they coast which means
you can depower them from central
control which is handy
all right thomas lesonke thank you for
your super chat and he says if you had
to give a rough estimate let's say plus
or minus a few hundred years
on when we might be seeing the first
rotating habitats that people begin to
actually inhabit what would be your
estimate it would be my estimate
um
for routine habitats when you see the
first one uh would you say o'neil soon
or just a routine habitat just a
rotating habitat
i think in the next 20 to 40 years if
not you know we'll probably have
something that just has the the real
axis rotation thing but i wouldn't
imagine that would be very big at all
the thing is you kind of have to build a
space station with that in mind because
trying to make the two up doesn't well
not rotating and rotating and the
biggest reason to have a space habitat
right now up there is to do zero gravity
experiments in so you have to choose
between the two we can't have both at
once
um whenever we start doing tourists up
there though you definitely want to have
that even just connected by tethos they
do sleep in the rotating wheel section
but those could be very small you know
that's this question of when is there
enough people out there to justify and i
would guess
10 to 40 years uh an actual full-on
o'neill cylinder i really would be
surprised that something like that
didn't get built like the you know the
late 2200s if not later just because you
need to have thousands and thousands of
people inside one of those uh full blown
on the other side uh and assuming you've
had thousands of thousands of people
living in orbit it's not likely that
they all live in the same place because
they have other jobs we're doing you
know elsewhere so you might need
millions of people in space living there
full time before you'd actually get to
the point that you wanted to uh want to
actually have a uh
i don't know the movie one place of
thousands of times so there you go
all right the booboo master says is it
possible for a tidally locked planet to
have its entire surface habitable
yes yeah
we actually talked about that in uh i'll
colonize the office and tally episode we
assumed that uh getting out of pocket
center you have a tightly locked wall to
colonize um however you have to take
some additional steps or you have to
uh
alter your standards for inhabitant a
little bit right uh in an entirely dark
planet you got one side that's being lit
all day long but mind you tightly locked
to a stall right one side's lit all the
time the other side is dark all the time
you got twilight band around it when a
plant's tied up to a stall you have
thailak moons almost every moon is
tightly locked and those would still be
getting life in that sun in the same
period that they rotate around their uh
their primary like jupiter and ganymede
a lot of those big old planets that once
are big old almost dwarf plants uh that
we have around
jupiter and saturn they are tightly
locked the two
to jupiter saturn and they actually have
a daylight that's
uh less than a day to a few days long in
many cases so we'd expect it to be a lot
of moons that were tightly locked to gas
giants that were habitable and they
would always see that planet up in the
sky they always have a brighter side
because of that neo-reflection off that
planet but the classic tyre lock plant
one going around the stall has that dark
side
and uh
in that case you can light that up by
having a mirror there right uh you just
have a mirror though hanging uh in an l2
halo orbit kind of what do with the
james webb telescope only the solar l
tube and the lunar one um and that would
just be pushing light right back at the
surface of that planet from that it goes
past and bounces back right so you can
artificially engineer that very easily
very easily and you can tell the
miostars spin on a 24-hour basis so they
won't lighting up too much too and so
then there's actually a daytime length
you can do the same thing by putting
those at the l1 point in front of that
planet to go ahead and take the entirely
locked planets
sun side and actually give it nighttime
and day time
now could things live there normally
without all that naturally sure things
could adapt to live very dark almost all
the ocean life beneath the the little
tiny epilegic zone is adjusted to live
in darkness of the marine snow that
falls to them from above
well a plant that's being hit on one
side by the sun has a constant pump
action from the sun basically pushing
material that way as it warms so you
probably have a marine snow equivalent
through the oceans of an entirely locked
board and you'll probably have a weight
pushing down as water and stuff collects
on top of those that like a glacial
pushed it back out so you can kind of
think it was like a north pole southport
thing at that point where you'd have
marine snow though that was going around
the equator would that get all the way
around to the back side of that planet
probably not but it's hard to say
i love seeing the super chats pop up and
then there's cheshire cat pop up over
the top of them it's hilarious
um
my zombie like says how many years do
you think it will be before we start to
have profitable power satellites in
earth orbit
problem do you say profitable profitable
that's always a hard question especially
the energy industry because if you go
through most energy companies books and
ask them exactly what qualifies as
profitable it's it's often subsidized so
um let's see
um
in the next 20 years we can we will
probably have prototype power satellites
up in the next you know decade or two i
think that is that is the snowball we're
now seeing with spacex right we could
lose our inertia again like we did after
the apollo missions that is a real
possibility but i don't think we're
going to lose that in ocean this time i
think we're going to start seeing that
steam world into space now and i think
prototype power satellites
as soon as they actually get the
production of these you know the mission
number up on these uh
these you know this new generation of
rockets you're going to see an awful lot
more test prototypes going up on a much
more shoestring budget and one of the
first things that's likely to include is
power satellite attempts uh i expect
that especially as you get more and
better graphene production more and
better semiconductor production up
expect to see a lot of that kind of
effort in place so the first power
satellites maybe even this decade but
not much longer not for profitable ones
not this generation
okay so michael
mcconnell wants to know if you ever see
a
butlerian revolution happening in our
future
but leon jihad or
excuse me revolution
let's just spell b-u-t-l-e-r
okay belian jihad from the dune series
is probably what's the references there
um in well
actually phrases
in um
in the doom series there's there's the
dune books originally written by frank
hobart and then there's the durian books
written after his passing by his son and
kevin j anderson and there's kind of two
different pictures of what the jihad was
from each of those so
um and what we seem to get the picture
from the original series was basically
that people had been
controlling machines that weren't on top
and we used their space to get pressed
everybody else because the machines had
gotten everybody lazy and decadent and
uh the people controlled this machine
used to enslave them and then they
rebelled and smashed up all the machines
and didn't use them anymore that's the
kind of the older version of that the
newer version
is that uh something kind of similar
happened with some cyborg people they
took over the uh they took over the
entire empire by taking control of their
machines and then the machine itself
took control of them so more of a skynet
case in there
um but uh whichever one you're going
with i wouldn't actually expect either
one in this upcoming generation
there is a i happen to be worried about
luddites for instance and when i was
researching luddites because i always
wanted luddites you know these
anti-technological people smashed up
machines what i found out is they were
actually not very anti-technology at all
they they were opposed to labor
practices involving some of the early
factory stuff in england uh not what i
call the most admirable group in most
ways but the same time not nearly what
we get them portrayed as these days and
every time i hear about an
anti-technology group these days it
almost always turns out to be there
specifically against one
specific application of technology or
couple you know um
and so
you know we are not the 1950s isaac
asthma robots set up where the machines
are going to be humanoid intelligent
walking androids that are replacement
people they are going to be your vacuum
cleaners and roombas it's a lot harder
to see at butler and jihad where you
smash ball machines going on uh where
people like and for the safety and sake
of mankind we must break all of our
microchipped refrigerators and roombas
uh the power washing cleaners that go up
and down the skyscrapers
and and you know those have to go too
because life without risk isn't worth
living or some other such
commentaries might say nonsense but
that's probably judgmental
but i think you also see at the same
time yes people are going to be very
worried about your machines are placing
people employer-wise and not just
reactionarily you know there are some
real economic concerns
that are not just reactionary to pretty
machines anywhere so there probably will
be some
limitations placed on what you're
allowed to actually automate would be my
guest so these people will try that how
long this will last and what phone to
come that's a wait and see you know that
we'll see probably in the next 10 to 20
years too
all right a question from alleluia thank
you alleluia for your super chat and he
says hello isaac do you think that we
can reach a post scarcity with technolo
technology innovation even those social
innovations have lagged far behind
yeah you can i mean i hate to say it but
we usually tend to think of post
scarcity as principally being a
technological development rather than a
social one the two do work together
though i mean you can have
almost infinite production and still
have uh horrible horrible uh you know
mismatching of resources to usage um
but uh yeah we are an older and more
bureaucratic society now as i say we
really do think much more long-term than
our ancestors did and we like our
paperwork
but we are much better at administering
and distributing than we used to be um
and we tend to be more mindful of that i
think um
at the same time
you know that that helps with almost
anything because you're you know people
pay more attention to how we're going to
be moving stuff around and getting
distributed um but technology is the big
way you get that taken care of you just
keep ramping up your production ramp you
up you know how much actual effort from
a human has to be done to produce x
amount of resources i see my wife
smiling like a cat over there that's
what's the question so the answer
question yes i i do think we can get
post-scarcity on technology alone on our
cultural
all right the next question is from neil
hart if our universe exists in a
complete void is it possible for dark
energy and the internal pressure of our
universe against the total vacuum of the
void outside it
it must be time to go to break because i
i that read that one to me again then
we'll answer it and go to break oh yeah
i'm sorry
neil hart if our universe exists in a
complete void is it possible dark energy
is the internal pressure of our universe
against the total vacuum of the void
outside it
um that's actually a fairly good
question we usually tell people and you
have to excuse me the hat it definitely
heats up the skull and there's no fans
on in the studio whenever we're alive
because of microphones and noise um
there's always a question what is the
universe expanding into uh and and we
say well not really expanding anything
as i point out in the edge of the
universe episode not that long ago we
say that but that is kind of an
assertion we don't actually have any
evidence that it isn't expanding
anything we know it's not really
expanding the space like we have right
now
and it could be expanding into a vacuum
but i am actually pretty sure i'm
assuming that there was a reason why
that couldn't be the case that would
actually be an existing just big empty
space by itself
uh i do not remember off the top i had
what it was
but there was a specific reason listed
why we would see
uh like a signature if it was actually
emptied into just normal space like we
have now but essentially empty of any
any matter or energy um
unfortunately i cannot remember what
that was there are usually a couple
cosmologists hanging around in our chats
i've noticed feel free folks to answer
that one uh and poke me if that's the
case so i can actually relay to the
audience
but i'm afraid i can't tell you that
that wouldn't be the case so what that
sanctuary is this time all right let's
go ahead and go to break and i'm going
to take this hat off and get cooled down
so we'll be on break for a few minutes
and it's a great time to get a drink and
a snack and considering it's halloween
i'd imagine you have snacks on hand it's
also a great time to get more questions
into our moderators for part two of our
show on a lighthearted note while we're
on break folks often ask who my favorite
authors or musicians or films are and it
is a perfectly fine topic for the live
streams but i tend to encourage our mods
to fast-track questions that are about
our topics or which they don't recall me
answering before and if you're curious
why your question might be getting
skipped the four big ones tend to be a
it's something the mods know i've
answered elsewhere before b it's
something that i won't answer like
politically charged or loaded questions
c it's not deemed a high priority eg
what's isaac's favorite band when
someone else just asked why ganymede
isn't considered as good a place to
colonize as europa
and d it just wasn't phrased as a clear
question or included profanity
personally i really like the type c
questions like what am i reading this
month or if i thought picard or cork was
the better captain because it gives me a
chance to catch my breath between trying
to lie formulate useful answers to very
complex and difficult questions without
saying something wrong or unhelpful our
show doesn't do simple and our audience
doesn't do easy questions much either
everybody knows how to do google wiki
for easy stuff so i get the hard
questions so the easy question like your
favorite flavor of ice cream actually
are welcome though obviously we try to
keep them too quick and small quantities
since we do get them a lot my favorite
musicians in loose order are sting
johnny cash the wallflowers queen yo-yo
ma garbage revell david bowie thelonious
monk wagner and allison chains and like
books if you ask me on a different day
the list will probably look half
different
for books my favorite sci-fi authors in
no particular order and off the cuff are
isaac asthma of robert heinlein larry
niven douglas adams frank hobart orson
scott card alistair reynolds timothy
zahn michael stackboar dan abnett sandy
mitchell chris wraith david brin gregory
benford greg bale andy weir e m banks
voter venge peter hamilton h.p lovecraft
and many many more
for fantasy writers rogers lazney rob
jordan brandon sanderson glenn cook jim
butcher michael morcock and mccaffrey
c.s friedman george r.r martin robin
hobb terry brooks terry goodkind and of
course the great terry pratchett and j.r
tolkien who no reading list should be
without along with cs lewis though i
enjoy his nonfiction more
and for non-fiction histories tend to be
my favorites with folks like will durant
dan jones and susan weiss barrow topping
list
followed by philosophical works john
locke kant hobbes bastrom nichi
augustine and so on and i almost never
read biographies but what i do it tends
to be folks like richard feynman or ben
franklin both of whom top my personal
role models list
tv shows-wise i don't watch much but it
tends to be history business cooking
sarah and i have a fondness for hell's
kitchen or diy stuff like this old house
as much as sci-fi and for those curious
i have seen the apple adaptation of
asmo's foundation and am tentatively
upbeat on it thus far and if you're
wondering who i liked better as a
captain picard or cork the answer is
actually benjamin cisco and i haven't
really been able to get into any of the
newer trek stuff starting with jj abrams
reboot film same for the newer star wars
material though i've seen the first
season of the mandalorian and i liked it
well enough empire strikes back and
wrath of khan were my favorite films of
each of those two franchises blade
runner dune casablanca and the maltese
falcon are probably my favorite films
overall to close out my hobbies switch
up from year to year lot too but this
year's big ones have been cooking
bicycling gardening grilling hosting
board game nights beekeeping and of
course reading
my favorite ice cream is chocolate with
chocolate in it i take my coffee with
cream and sugar dinner my black tea and
tend to drink mostly mint and chamomile
herbal tea blends i hope that answers
most the usual personal rather than
channel related questions i know my
wikipedia page is pretty sparse and
appreciate folks having done that at all
you're always free to ask more but as i
said they tend to get lower priority and
stuff didn't give me a mental breather
much like this intermission which now
comes to an end so we can get to more of
your questions
and we're back
we've had a lot of questions about
aliens ai and halloween so what do you
anticipate
the future of halloween to look like in
outer space
the future of halloween and outer space
that's a good question except sometimes
not something's gonna have a future
around here either uh to real quick eric
johansen's question is it okay to give
fried eggs to trick-or-treaters the
answer is yes it is absolutely fine
especially the marshmallow kind just
make sure you cook the yolks all the way
through to avoid uh oh i was about to
say salmonella but it's not salmonello
it's the other one e coli e coli and
salmonella yeah i'd say
yeah so yes fried eggs sometimes they're
cooked through the yolk no no hard
boiled eggs but the marshmallow ones are
much better the marshmallow ones are
much better yeah
the future the gummy ones
the future of halloween in space um kind
of the question though is is at what
point you know what's when is there
gonna be the shift on what becomes the
scary monsters
uh like we have all the classic ones and
we have a lot more we kind of made up in
you know kind of disney style in the
last century
uh and well not just disney style but
rachel corman style and
a number of other horror movie
franchises um
i
would suspect that a big aspect of scary
movies in the future would actually
the person having kind of a memory fog
and then a virtual reality experience
where they felt like they are very much
in the uh the zombie apocalypse where
basically you have your own reasoning
and memory
push down a little bit so you you uh are
able to do a suspension of disbelief
better if you enjoy being terrified and
exciting um although i wonder if that
would make a lot of people not do it
anymore
one of the questions was did you think
that the new computer technology and
adaptive outfits would be used for
halloween going forward oh yeah well
augmented yeah would be a good one too
if everyone walks around augmented
reality you can change your costume the
same way you know like zoom and you can
change beyond your background image
which um i don't do very much because i
can green screen here and have better
cameras so the ability to screw out that
on zoom is less fun but
you know it's it will get better to the
point where you could be walking around
in augmented reality dressed in jeans
but anyway there's tornado would see you
in like a tuxedo or a fiery crown or a
giant feather headdress which i'd love
to get a feather headdress though we
should do that next halloween big
feather headdress um but uh halloween in
space
i don't know that'll be impacted really
at all i just tend to assume humans in
the future will attend like their
holidays more even more than they do now
we celebrate them
in a lot of style so you know i think
that would only tend to get more extreme
with time
though not as a slippery slopey toner
now which i think we just had to keep
upgrading how much we celebrate holidays
all right timu thank you for your super
chat how do we make plastics in space
especially without crude oil
well you don't need crude oil to make
plastic out of what you need is
basically the polymorphs in general you
can make them out of ethanol i'm not
talking about ethanol bio biodiesel
biofuels you can make plastic out of
those um
but
you can
make them out of canola oil things like
that lots of various feedstocks are
options for the uh for that and um
i think that they really wouldn't be too
much of a problem they just don't have
the easy font of dead dinosaur and algae
to make the plastics out of um but other
than that should be a concern
all right anna's a question from michael
gardano if we put some type of manned
weapons platform in orbit like a small
spaceship could we have implications
like ending mutually assured destruction
oh i think there's there's a problem is
first for those of us who grew up in 80s
we always called this mutually assured
destruction and since the acronym was
mad and everyone's assuming it must be a
bad policy uh madam was an awesome
policy it was an absolutely awesome
policy it's nice to have the defensive
one too but basically
most of human history we've had peace
along groups has been from the
assumption that both sides could beat
the living snot out of each other in a
way that would leave them fatally
wounded uh you know either as a country
or in terms of leadership right we had
that exact same thing going on usually
inside of two party rule systems too
both sides either one could really off
the other if they needed to
but then they'd be left vulnerable to
whatever come and get them as it were
mutually assured destruction is a very
classic philosophy
uh for peace that probably predates
humanity uh in any sort of modern
history
um but uh
i i don't really see that going away you
know in space can you have good
defensive systems yeah
uh can you be vulnerable to states that
much much smaller than you
possibly possibly you have defenses that
require them to be roughly on policy too
but
um
you know
better technology is not likely to
eliminate that as a policy and i don't
know that that's a goal either it might
be nice to have to hassling better if
you could think of something better but
i don't tend to give mad as actually a
bad policy in and of itself just a
pragmatically available one
going back to the last question we've
had a few interesting suggestions how
about a moon potato
plastic or a mushroom fabric for your
next halloween outfit mushroom fabric uh
you know i always liked the mushroom
leather that was on there but uh
actually i still have a leather car
around somewhere but i don't think i
actually won much leather in years um
it's uh
although it keeps a lie so i have
leather boots when i was in the military
and i i i mean the ones i would have
gotten like 2003.
um but uh
let's see
go go ahead yeah yeah i know you're
going to just park on that mushroom
fabric but oh yeah go ahead
jody g says what level of space
exploration can we expect to happen by
2050
level a space exploration by 2050. and
by the way one of my jobs wife's
producer on the show is is to hoi me up
when i start kind of slogging down on a
question uh since everyone knows i can
spend 30 minutes and three months since
that's what we do every thursday
um okay um space illustration by 2050.
um
you know the last episode for the year
has a bunch of predictions for the next
century specifically but i did one with
kapowski
uh
maybe two years ago there was this
technology expected by 2050.
i don't really expect it to be any huge
new exploration by 2050 more probes way
more automated probes probably at least
one speculative asteroid mining
operation
uh you know it's purely robotic and and
non-profitable by 2050
probably my manned successful mission or
two to mars by then maybe an outpost
there
probably a moon base that is
quasi-permanent in the same way that
early south antarctica ones well uh
manned missions besides mars
maybe venus maybe actually an asteroid
another asteroid but poppy that be it
isaac verdoe says you have said on
multiple episodes that you think earth
will be the center of human civilization
for a long time to come if that ever
stops being the case where will be the
new center happy halloween
happy halloween
um
the default would tend to be towards the
center of the galaxy but it usually
assumes that you have some kind of ftl
going on um and i don't know that it
really matters where it's at if not uh
you know we were talking about
foundation they had their galactic
empire capital near the center of things
and then the
second empire was uh both actually from
there spoilers and uh from like uh
planning on the edge of the galaxy
terminus
um
it doesn't necessarily make much of a
difference where your capitals at if you
can move things around very close
quickly like dc is on the eastern coast
um
san francisco these are places are very
far away from each other uh compared to
the rest of the country so i don't think
that really make much of a difference
where your capital is at if you can
travel there relatively quickly and have
near instantaneous communication and if
you have a galactic empire that's
probably the case you probably have
cracked that ftl problem if not then
then you know i don't think you actually
have a new center after all i think
you'd have a lot of old build-up wards
that were throughout the galaxy the
places where colonization that happened
strongest and hardest in that region
that will probably the de facto new
local
capital for human value of capital it
might be capital in the same way that uh
you know the the bigger cities on the
coast tend to be
major
capitals of the local region even their
city-states i don't think that you'd
actually ever have any galactic empires
or local galactic empires that were
bigger than their own star but you'd
suddenly have ones that were all bigger
more respected more central the hub
i think we would have those in a lot of
cases i think would just default after
earth wasn't in the main role anymore
so in the short term then do you think
it would be better to launch a complex
automated robotics to build
sustainable substantial livable and
other structures on the moon versus
doing the majority of it via manned
missions
oh yeah roboticizing to get away with um
you know the the idea is not to replace
humans with robustness to is to have the
robots do all the grunt work so we can
actually send more people in easier um
i'm not interested in building an
unmanned permanent
moon base and never having people go
there that would be pointless but i
don't have any problem you know i'm not
john henry i'm not going to get in the
uh a a
big old game to see which of us me or
the machine can drive through a mountain
forest uh i can build me a robot that
can go through that mountain faster and
then it's not me versus you know
it's not john henry versus the machine
it's john harry versus the guy who built
that machine right um same for us right
the
robots can be used to do so much that we
are not going to be able to deal with
that we could do better right by using
the robots and that means we can do more
man stuff that way too
and i think that means that we do use
the robots as much as possible because
and this big one
until they're truly sentient and
intelligent which they wouldn't need to
be for construction project i don't care
how many of them die in the process
because they're just robots they're not
live right whereas i don't want to lose
a single astronaut to building a moon
base if i can avoid it so that raises
the interesting question from yummy yum
who says how risky and fatal would the
first attempts at space habitat
construction and living
and space colony colonialism
approximately be assuming that we treat
them with these standard safety
standards that are currently expected
for humans
uh i suppose it depends a lot on what
the standard safety levels are
there's a big difference between osha
requirements and what actually goes on a
lot of work sites and there's a really
big difference between ocean ocean
requirements and uh places they're off
the books and there's a lot of places
off the books uh i would tend to guess
that we'll have relatively minimal
deaths in space especially because a lot
of people who be tiny go to space are
more likely to be uh technophiles or
pro-tech in which case they probably
would be out of that group of people who
have access to bcis and brain backups or
repairs so i suspect you know you you oh
i got vented down airlock that is
fixable a person flying out into space
from an airlock that is repairable
damage
um probably even with modern technology
in some cases we better save their life
if we got fast right
so i don't think we actually have a lot
of permanent deaths in those
in the early phase
all right um
dt finnham says hey isaac what would
need to be developed on the moon before
you would consider doing a month-long
vacation there
on the moon um
it's a good question uh
plumbing i i don't you know i i
i did a lot of camping uh when i was in
the military uh i i spent a lot of time
in tents when i was in the military uh
and it gave me appreciation for lots of
things um
that were not tense i don't go camping
anymore i i don't go places that don't
have air conditioning so
the moon would have to have um
good plumbing
uh all the amenities i would normally
find in my home
and uh some place where i felt depending
on what the gravity was required
possibly a chamber i could spend gravity
up on so i am not really uh i'm an
extreme clamp or not a campbell that
would apply to space missions too sarah
what would it take for you to go to the
moon
um
you would probably need to go with me
and
someplace comfortable to sleep where i
wouldn't be bound bumping my head on the
ceiling
i guess the upside of the moon is the
gravies like
one seventh one seventh of what it is or
one sixth somewhere in that region what
does he on earth see you
you you have a very light i mean you
could slip on a very very light mattress
i think it was a foam one i suppose but
so yes it kind of depends i mean i'd
love to go just to see it but if we're
talking a month-long vacation that's a
whole nother story yeah i think the
thing i would mostly want to see on the
moon personally uh that would be what
would get me to go there would be i want
to see
what it looks like when there's no air
and you're looking at the mountains and
so forth it's very much more crisp
without the air there the problem is
that you're either looking through a
helmet or you're looking with your
malquette eyeball without your helmet on
which means that if they haven't put air
therefore you see that cool side you are
going to die shortly so
that might be one of those things better
experienced by virtual reality through a
camera you know
okay so now you mentioned that oxygen
would be a great great starting point oh
yeah oxygen on the moon is cool and you
can do that too you can terraform the
moon it takes a little bit of extra
active support
so dark sky in winter says given the
likely incompatibility of human law with
alien law and how poorly first contact
has gone in human history would a good
strategy for alien first contact be
quote no aliens unless you're cool
um i mean i would i would argue that
forced contact in human civilization has
often actually gotten just just fine it
depends on the circumstance we can
obviously think of a lot of historical
case where it's gone bad but a lot of
trade has actually happened between
serious civilizations that are fairly
militant in nature and do not speak each
other's language just by the
old-fashioned trick of i put this down
on the shore where i know you can see it
while you're there and you put something
out there and i push it your way and you
push it mind we reach that level we're
going to trade right
um
there's a lot of change you could do and
it's surprising actually how peaceful
many interactions with humans have been
though of course
often they have not been too so um with
aliens we should not assume that all
past track record is necessarily always
bad and that's going to always affect us
on the future either
um
and uh it depends a lot on the aliens to
say
let us be realistic when we're dealing
with people uh in life there are people
who are going to get offended almost no
matter what you do because they are
touchy we could come across some
civilizations that are like that uh
though i don't know that they'd be able
to last for a life they'll touch you a
lot uh on the other hand they could have
individuals who are touchy and that
would not necessarily be surprising and
those might be you know who's going to
come visit our planet first touchy
tourists or you know greedy merchants
trying to get the quick score or who
knows but i think that
we'd be wise to be careful in our trade
relations and not just jump at the first
moment someone's out there the key thing
to remember if you get a hello over here
message we might be your friends is that
um
that means there's others you can talk
to too possibly from that civilization
you shouldn't assume the first message
you get offline to partner up with you
is not to say the one you want to say
yes to just because the first one you
got period
tony rogers says how likely is it that
elon musk or someone else will actually
develop factories in
space uh
i mean i don't know about elon musk
specifically obviously but i'd say 100
that someone's going to develop
factories in space uh sure well
99 point whatever minus the probability
of us being wiped out for your chance to
do that um but it's very high very high
uh there's just too many things that are
really nice to manufacture in low
gravity uh we you know right now
we don't have enough raw materials every
things we can actually bring up and back
down which means it's gotta be worth
thousands of dollars a kilogram period
and there's not very many things that
are like that but microchips are like
that microchips are way more valuable
than gold right
uh in terms of weight so we're getting
to the point where that's gonna be
operational soon but you have to have a
certain scale to be able to do that and
i think that's something we'll see in
the next 10 to 50 years scaling up is
like the big thing orbital
infrastructure
so um someone wants to know if you can
walk on teaton with only an oxygen mask
you could walk on titan with only an
oxygen mask but you would rapidly die
from you're walking around in a freezer
full of refrigerant you know it's it's
very cold and it's made out of
high pressure gas right so you're going
to freeze that very very quickly if you
don't have some incident layer right
that does need to be a factor in there
and better gear that you use in
antarctica right but could you put on
something that was like a deep window
suit mask cover your eyes upright and go
outside like a scuba suit plus coat real
quick
um to basically run from here to there
yeah you probably could do that just you
can operate very long outside you must
not go out there in in normal day-to-day
clothing though or you will die like
that even with a mask
so
middle gore says do you believe it
mining
do you believe it's viable to mine a
neutron star or something similar
i'm kind of curious what there's
something similar to me in this case
um the only thing i think of this
similar to one would be a quark star uh
and those are even harder neutron stars
i i have to double check the range of
viable escape velocities but they have a
very small range of masses between um
white dwarf and and black hole range uh
each is going to have a little window of
escape floss from the surface i think
most of those are over half the speed of
light though i want to check that but
you're talking about mining raw neutrons
essentially or you could get some
heavier matter out of there as a result
possibly but you have to be blowing off
with high-powered lasers and you'd be
getting something like the amount of
energy conversion ratio in terms of that
value so
ah
probably not but you could do it if
you're really mad or desperate you might
be able to make that a
better better profitability than just
using var energy to turn that into mass
but i don't think it's going to be like
that's the last place in university mine
luke hamilton wants to know if you have
seen or said anything about the new dune
movie
well we were just talking about the dune
man i have seen the trailer they look
pretty good trailers always look good um
i
will go watch i think i'm gonna switch
with jason wants to go watch that either
that you or christine will enjoy it so
we're gonna go watch that together i
mean just watch frozen two while you do
that you rush frozen two with you too so
um but uh i think chase is not gonna go
watch that jason kilo is a friend of
mine um but uh
i think uh we'll probably go watch that
movie within the first week or two
coming out and i will get back to you
guys on that which i gather will be the
next live stream another one i'm waiting
on with
baited breath is the wheel of time
series that is i really love that book
series
um
i'm not certain how the tv series is
going to go but i'm
always optimistic on these things i i
don't set the ball too high you know
because i i especially we've been
producing shows for a while you start
getting how hard it is to adapt certain
material so
um but uh
i like the original dune movie you know
i did that uh did the actually defense
on that and the wheels of just a show
trying to argue why the original david
lynch film is good i like the drodowski
one for what you've seen of it i like
the mini series they did on sci-fi
channel though the graphics were kind of
weak i really like the children of doing
me seriously followed up the visuals
improved a lot so a lot of the acting
um i liked the video games i loved dune
2000 dune 2 and emperor battle for doom
those were all awesome games i wish
they'd make sequels
um and
i'm keeping my fingers crossed the movie
in its sequel because i guess the two
powder will be good
um
so i just have time for a couple more
questions here and i think you had some
additional outfit you were going to
demonstrate so while you're preparing
that i'm going to ask a question from
household adventures thank you for your
super chat he says if a black hole
evaporates over time what happens when
the mass is no longer enough to keep
light from escaping would fusion
re-trigger into a sun okay what did you
ask that question again though
if a black hole evaporates over time
what happens when the mass is no longer
enough to keep light from escaping would
fusion re-trigger into a sun
just realize how bad my hair is there um
although it's much cooler now without it
um
black holes when they evaporate they
just have their actual um
see because i could see my picture of
myself my haircut black holes black
holes evaporating they just get smaller
they never actually ceased to have that
advantage until
sometime when they're you know
microscopic maybe when they are really
really towards the end weighing less
than like electrons i think they might
be a naked singularity but until then
they just keep evaporating getting
smaller and the the uh the event
horizons radius will decrease uh lydial
to mass so you evaporate half your mass
away your event rises half the size in
diameter and a quarter of the size in
the surface area
time for another one yeah yeah
ben kitt says hello isaac what is your
understanding and opinion on the faint
young sun paradox and how does our
current understanding of our planet's
history work if this is true how does
our current understanding of the
universe change the faint sun paradox um
the
entire climate of this planet was so
different uh you know in that epoch that
it's really hard to make too many
assumptions about what it actually was
like here because the atmosphere had
been different right
we do not know what that atmosphere was
like we just kind of guessed that it was
slowly rising in oxygen but very low in
option we do not know enough about the
composition of the plant in terms of
surface layers we could have had many
snowball or phases for instance too um
but that was very speculative and the
records fast record for that's very
limited so
um i tend to think that to really get
good answer that we might almost have to
go see some other stars to get better
answer but i don't think it represents
too much rehas though just because
you know
it's something people tend to forget the
amount of light you get is not all that
strong in indicators the big influence
for how much heat you have but it's not
the biggest one here in ohio we are like
the same latitude as uh like italy
and but much quarter right so
uh it's it's very different in because
of not just the amount of sun you get
though all right for one more john cole
says if we start mining the moon do you
think countries will start fighting over
it
and i have one more after that uh yeah i
think they absolutely would stop
fighting but not necessarily violently
but you know if you've got resources
coming off like crazy from the moon um
you know you're going to have people
fighting about that with each other in
total who controls them reads the
episode called battle for the moon
and the last question for today is from
flora horbeck if we can levitate a frog
using magnets could we use magnets as an
artificial gravity to keep humans on the
ground in zero gravity uh yes but no um
you know if you
do magnetic boots you always see those
in our shows that walks you could do a
limited magnetic suit i especially
actually used some kind of
smart suit that had various
electromagnetics on it that tuned to
adjust the gravity in the right
direction for instance for you
but at the same time
i think that you would probably probably
uh
not be able to use it the way people
think he was like artificial gravity and
an actual
change around for it um
uh but um no artificial gravity is not a
byproduct of magnetics they're aware of
nor is uh magnetic levitation
antigravity they have very different
effects you know it affects certain
types of atoms more than others magnetic
ones versus other ones so you're not not
a clean replacement for just sticking
you in place though i mean magnetic
adhesion yeah that works so
we're gonna go ahead and close out there
for the day and uh
i actually wait in the bottom end of
this so it's at the top
we'll see you all next week
so that will wrap us up for the day i
want to thank everyone for joining us
and again if we didn't get your question
feel free to post as a comment below and
i'll try to get to it this evening
also you can continue the conversation
at any of the forums on facebook reddit
discord or our website isaacarthur.net
thanks for joining us and we'll see you
thursday
