can I'm gonna actually see me at the
moment anybody in the chat window go
ahead and say hi if your papi and oily
on this we're just trying to get these
system unscrewed up well we have you've
never done this for try to figure out
what's going on are you okay extreme it
okay you were in the chat window just go
ahead and say yes okay
now Emily see if I can actually bring up
the chat window live well I can see the
screen I guess actually don't need to
see the screen okay we will schedule to
get started - there's like a million
chat comments coming in we were going to
go ahead and get started
two o'clock and that will be when we get
formally started although again well
letting this entire thing putting in
formally this is all forced live stream
chat doing this we plan to do one of
these each month towards the end of
things probably not always on the last
day of the month but maybe the last
Sunday and so forth our big focus is
going to be on the the actual episodes
in the previous month and then as we get
more experience with this we might bring
on guests and so forth and see what goes
with that but I thought for this very
first session while we while we get used
to how to use the software we would go
ahead and just go solo and just do
questions now again normally we'll be
focusing on what we are covering in the
previous month and the schedule for the
next month but for this time Wall Street
is a bit of a AMA or ask me anything
type situation we will be going ahead
and running this afterwards as a video
people can watch later on but I will
probably take it down and edit out all
the various bits of me stuttering and
not knowing what's going on and of
course it's no surprise the piece of new
technology anything that is audio visual
you're going to have problems alright so
we'll go ahead and start with questions
we want to put one of them up there real
quick and we will see where we go from
that and now it's when the chat pauses
nothing new gets added on
okay for the schedule that's going to be
coming up while we wait for questions to
come in we do have four episodes coming
up in August are in October let me pull
those up the first one will be
seasteading and artificial islands
that's going to be a new series on earth
2.0 it's we were joking about maybe
calling that downward bound for a while
but we've already kind of used up upward
bound and outward bound but earth 2.0
seemed a little bit more appropriate
because there's gonna be an entire kind
of how do you tail for moth and we'll be
looking at all the various technologies
we've previously used so in terms of
tail for me other planets first question
that's on they are will you do a video
on the multiverse theory we've talked
about that a little bit before in the
infinite improbability episode and I'm
not be sure there's all that much more
to say on the topic we could talk about
multi forces for a long time I think
I've mentioned I tend to follow the
Copenhagen interpretation which is the
exact opposite of view on quantum they
are a ton of theories for quantum
physics in terms of interpreting what
all the wave-particle duality and so
forth mean or the entanglement the
spooky spooky action at a distance
option but the thing is there's no
evidence to actually indicate any of
those scenarios all true and I tend to
feel that if you can't create a false
five or theory on something then it
probably shouldn't be included in formal
scientific discussion too much it's a
little bit like string theory in that
without great theory Thank You marinus
and you know it's a great theory but
there's no evidence and as long as
you're doing science it does need to be
that second question how long do you
think for humanity establishes a
permanent base on the moon and that is
actually going to be our November
fifteenth episode and actually pull up
that list real quick so I'm not trying
to quote from memory heal we do keep a
all kind of all the episodes linked I
will post that at some point again but
we've posted other episodes on the
Facebook forum that will tell you all
the episodes that we've done before one
has a link to them it also has a
progress status I know the
upcoming episodes up until December 20th
I believe at the moment at the moment we
have battle for the moon scheduled
November 15th and we'll be looking there
at kind of what's gonna go on with the
moon when it's actually built up a
little bit as to when we'll get all
forced moon base I think we'll probably
maybe in the next 20 years I know we've
always said with the moon oh and another
20 years it's going to be so awesome and
so great and we'll be able to have a
moon base there on just 20 more years
but I don't think I don't think that
we're just gonna keep pushing back
another 20 years much much longer SpaceX
and much other companies seem to be
genuinely moving on a kind of a new
concept and a new paradigm for how we do
this and I don't want to say anytime too
soon it might be 20 years it might be
longer but I do feel like it's not just
something that's gonna keep being over
the horizon and that by 2050 I'd be less
biased we hadn't had some semblance for
a moon base set up let me scroll back up
so another question there that was
somebody asked do you before doing near
future or fall future episodes a little
bit of both the thing is initially we
only have fall future episodes because
nobody else covered that and we were a
small niche Channel and I thought we
should stick to areas that other people
weren't covering after a while I decided
well the channel is big enough and high
enough quality we can get away with
doing more near-term stuff other people
would have covered and that did turn out
to be a lot of fun because we do have a
lot of thoughts on all those topics so
we probably will look more at some of
the rocketry that's actually in place
these days some spaceship designs like
some of the ramjets that are being
looked at or skyline and so forth but to
be honest I always enjoy the fall future
episodes the most - it's it's what we
started with and it's kind of what you
know nobody else gets to cover with it's
is the one that really lets you daydream
it's let's see what we have here
Thank You chao-li I question for you
will you ever put your episodes on
google play podcasts I do not know such
a thing existed so to answer your
question probably now that I am away of
it I'll have to look into that the
episodes are available in audio only on
soundcloud and itunes with and without
the Novation's and you can get the
episodes obviously out for YouTube or
[ __ ] shoot
we rely mostly on donations and
sponsorships so I do try to make sure
the episodes are freely available to
anybody who wants to see them and the
easiest format possible um question who
do you think the force molecular black
hole that was created what do you think
the force molecular black hole that was
created I was not a way or anyone who
created a molecular size black hole and
just off the top of my head that would
have to require an amount of mass
assuming the usual small shot is
actually correct somewhere close to the
least amount now think so that's I
wouldn't anyone's actually done that yet
right now one that would have like a
typical cougar bullets black hole which
would still be too much for us to make
right now but that would be somewhere in
the area of our entire energy output for
the planet for a year just to make a
tiny one smaller than a atomic nuclei it
was the next question on here
would you consider an episode on future
history possible Heinlein style I think
we can't do that to some degree you
probably ought to clarify Pete what you
mean by that we do sometimes do a
narrative format where we talk about
events from the assumption of like again
from a narrative format supposed to be
in general typically when you use the
narrative format for these but we're
telling your story it's because there
are so many different ways are given
technology or group of technologies
could fall out over time that you kind
of have to pick one you don't know if
it's more likely than the others but you
pick one and just roll with that
explain the concept and how things
happened but just to give you an example
we had solar power before we had
internal combustion engines in heavy
usage very bad solar power was basically
just Kapil I think was point five
percent efficiency but if that had you
know if semiconductors have been
invented a little bit earlier and we had
that you could easily have seen an
entire solo economy and that would have
looked completely different than what we
have now you to started with basically
everyone off the grid rather than having
it good and a lot more research in the
batteries and that would just kind of
change how people use the energy up
excuse me
space anomalies in each general episode
someone asks space anomalies in general
episode we probably would not do one on
that they are a staple of science
fiction that I mean that's pretty much
what Star Trek is all about one thing I
liked about Battlestar Galactica the
remade show was they almost never had
space anomalies and you know I hate to
say that space is pretty boy there's not
a lot of unique stuff in it in that
sense it's only it's good plot hook to
have the the ships come across space
anomalies but I don't think they'll be
very common unless they're of artificial
creation and that would generally in
terms of the phony paradox speak ill if
there was tons of abandoned ruins IO
interesting out there how do I think
language will change in the next
thousand years or so you know with
strangers we would expect language to
shift a lot just on general principle if
you look at the English language of a
thousand years ago I'm sure that
technically was an English language that
point
you know and obviously the people in
charge of England time mostly spoke
French or Occidental um but at the same
time I think if you start seeing you
know a larger population that's more
interactive with each other you are
moving that isolation aspect and if you
start extending people's lifetimes -
you're removing the desire to constantly
change the language so there is actually
good possibility we might divulge wildly
into many thousands of different
languages there are mishmash of each
other or we might start to see a
convergence towards one primary kind of
common language and you could actually
have both happen at once you could have
every language to voyage but there's a
lingua franca that people use that is
this is the common trade tongue and if
you had one of those I think there would
be a desire to keep that very stable
possibly even regulated by somebody that
says you know like the Oxford Dictionary
group that will say this new Ward
has to go through an appeals process
we're gonna add it is there need for
this ward right because if you get the
language costly changing it is gonna
start interfering with what old
contracts meant for instance and if
people live in long ago those things all
no longer redundant so we could very
easily have a system where you had
thousands or millions of unloved new
languages and changing languages but one
constant common tongue most people did
stick with okay question Isaac what do
you do for living anything related with
the tops on your channel I think I've
mentioned this one the bio things by
elapses we did the 100k special the 250k
special and there was a lot more
biography and those I don't really like
to do biography much especially
autobiography it's always a pack of lies
even when you're trying to be honest
this has kind of become my day job at
this point in time but I am the chairman
of the board of elections for my area of
Ohio and that actually just keep me very
busy I was joking we decide to
educational videos for Paul Volcker's
because every year we have about 500
people have to come in mostly volunteers
so we do we do pay them who basically
spend a very long day
you're making sure everybody can vote
and those 500 people all need to be
trained and equipped every single time
because they
we do it twice in your tops and yes
elections are usually twice a year or
not every four years wish more people to
remember that so we decided to do some
training videos for them this year and I
spent most of this week doing that so
instead of my usual one video week that
I turn out I've done 23 this huh a
little bit exhausted going into that and
probably will be into a mid-november but
that is the that is the day job if you
would the chat window keeps jumping
around on me we have a question is there
a way to create artificial gravity
without spinning and of course there is
one would be just to use natural mass or
natural energy again it is actually the
energy not the mass itself that
generates the gravity photons have no
mass but but do generate gravity which
is in most cases a semantic difference
as to whether or not we can create
artificial gravity any other way that's
one of those we just don't know
I usually regard that as Clark Tech in
fact were actually talking about it in
one of our episodes the one after better
for the moon so November 20 seconds
sleep Oh ships we talk about creating
stasis fields and since lots of gravity
or lots of ecovillage potentially where
it does slow down time under general
relativity if you could create an
artificial gravity field like you see on
things like Star Trek
you could presumably create a nice
uniform one that would slow down time an
awful lot and that might let you do the
classic time stasis feels people always
have in sci-fi as to where we would
actually go about doing that you know
the Sun creates photons and presumably
graviton so we know how to make photons
we don't know how to make gravitons but
we can't just assume that we'll never
figure that out but whether or not we'll
be able to do that we have no idea how
to do it at this time so that would just
be a wait-and-see kind of thing all
right let's see you know next question
here is if somebody did ask about
Warhammer 40k and high gothic there I
actually am a very big Warhammer 40k fan
so and one of the ones we always have
coming up on they are it's a joke that I
always
to abuse our medic crowd by never
visiting our social media there whereas
I'm on our Facebook one a lot and I only
started visiting their regulators I fell
under the Warhammer 40k law side but
it's okay what are your thoughts on
solar sails and electric solar wind
sails and oh you power the Planetary
Society I've actually had a little bit
of contact with the Planetary Society I
tend to be a bit of a home it so I don't
usually go to group meetings I do know
they have one in my area of Ohio and
they did reach out to me briefly but I
can never what we discuss they are and
as the solar sail is an electric sails
the biggest problem with these is that
there's just not a lot of push they oh
you have to make a very large sail to
actually get any real push and that's
certainly on the table as an option but
generally speaking it's gonna get weak
or the further away you get from the Sun
and in most of those cases well it might
be very handy for station-keeping um for
like satellites some things you want to
put into a normally impossible orbit so
the light we sometimes talk about a
mixture of a static and a satellite and
to actually make a ship out of that or
in kind of probe that seems to be like
something you'd almost always do with a
laser push sail or your microwave
beaming could you make an episode about
the possibility of using quantum
computers and supercomputers to simulate
a multi force and make predictions of
different futures to speed up
developments I think we did talk about
that a little bit in the infinite
improbability episode the matryoshka
brain is episode and the quantum
computing episodes and possibly iOS
dollars to you so that actually is a bit
of a familiar topic for us I don't know
that we want to visit it right now it is
one of those things where there's so
much new to quantum computing and
reversible computing which is totally
different but would tend to overlap with
the idea that I feel like that's
something that we'd want to weight off
until possibly a year or two for now
because it seems like there's a lot of
stuff going on we had two quick
questions they are favorite for ham or
Warhammer 40k army Imperial gold it's
just what I played and have I ever
considered running
office now now I I befo bein a not
elected appointed official so it's a
much less stressful a lot of my friends
are elected officials and especially
every time there are full election their
life is just insanely busy I'm also
really only interested in local politics
in the fullest place on what time skill
do you see the forced permanent space
colonies I do think we will get them
this century it is one of those ones
where there's no guarantees about when
we would have the technology for it and
we don't have the technology for it yet
to do it properly but um you don't set
up a base you don't set up a colony of
these places until you have a big enough
safeguard they can get a good number of
people there to actually do something
useful and permanent and while I do
support a lot of the efforts to get to
place like malls I'm really only just
doing it with a relatively large crew
that's going to be not necessarily
staying there themselves but setting up
a camp that people will be at regularly
and there's a lot to be said about you
know being the first person to climb
mountain being the fourth person to land
on balls but I I don't like anything
it's just strictly a prestige mission
and that to some degree seems like
that's that's what the aim as they are
to me it goes moonbase get a real
walking moon base and when you know you
can keep something like that running
then you go into Mars then you go to
asteroids then you go to Europa and so
forth and I even tend to feel that the
the moon base might be premature on what
we need is a vault or Space Station and
low orbit with a spinning section that
can simulate moon gravity you know it's
just a caution thing and stuff like this
if you we all want to push forward as
fast as we can but you don't want to do
it recklessly because if you do it
recklessly you can get setbacks and
those are setbacks that you know I don't
think we can afford to have right now if
we want to have this happen on a good
time line so cautions handy next
question what are your thoughts about
education the future I think that we're
going to see a lot more computer
education where it's actually customized
into the individual I think we use the
example in maybe
as jobs the future or quiet revolution
is the idea that you have teaching
machines that would be scanning you as
you read so as the child is looking at
it watching it whatever it is it's
picking up little signs that say oh he's
getting bored we need to represent this
material or skim through it or oh he was
very interested in this piece let's
focus in on this piece and I should
notice because it is 201 p.m. which is
when we were supposed to be going live
for any of you who actually join us in
the proper time we had some technical
glitches and we just went ahead and got
started a little bit early because it
was playing anyway this is our force
livestream session of what I hope will
be many more with fewer technical
glitches and welcome on board today
we'll be focusing on questions about the
episodes for this month and next month
as well as just a general ask me
anything about the channel type format
in the future we might bring on Gatsby
almost certainly will but until I'm a
little bit savvy with the technology
involved here and YouTube's war blind
this was the easiest system in the war
to use I'm not going to call them liars
but maybe I'm bad with technology which
would be ironic considering what I do
but we're going to hold off on bringing
guests on until I can be sure we're in a
good quality format and I do apologize
for any watching today that we all kind
of weighing things a little bit
amateurishly at the moment so it's let
me scroll back up and see where we're at
with questions and if you have questions
please just put them into the chat bots
I talking into chat box on the side
which at the moment is the only thing I
can see because it's not showing me this
video could you do a video on robot
rights we actually had that one up there
on and patreon is one of our poll topics
kind of a look at as Mo's laws and the
odds against most laws of robotics and
you know rights for robots and it is
something we've talked about a lot the
thing is whenever you start talking
about eating Sencha enough to actually
deserve rights or have a legitimate
claim on them I think it's a bad idea to
start qualifying them by what they are
we've done that in the past and it's
often torn very bad for us so I tend to
take the if it looks like a duck and it
quacks like a duck you you you know it
deserves a reasonable assumption that it
is in fact
a doc and the biggest thing to me is
that where that's concerned I think it's
important that if we stop creating
artificial intelligence that's small not
to be talking about what it wants to do
that um we may always be giving it the
benefit of the doubt and say in any
given case you have to prove or disprove
and there's a burden of evidence in this
case we're talking about whether or not
something is sentient and does have
rights
I think the bone of evidence once it
meets a basic level of probable cause
obviously I'm not worried about but my
toast or my cotton toast or is sentient
but if it's at the point where it's
created a reasonable case that it might
be sentient I think the bone of proof is
on anyone who's trying to say that it is
not and then we have to assume until
proven otherwise
that it is so that's pretty much where
we going with robot rights and we could
discuss that more next question a
prominent Arctic settlement might be a
good for step okay it's definitely not a
question but does I thought it was one
of the time so I answered anyway we were
talking moment about doing moon bases
before we did Mouse bases or another
bigger one to replace the ISS and low
orbits and our Orica along with McMurdo
the major station we have in Antartica
the biggest of them anyways I'm familiar
with those are actually really good
places to be doing a lot of these tests
for how we would survive and theory is
great but in practice always matters
more and you always gonna have something
you are missing the moon is not a good
place to be funny out that you forgot
some vitally important piece of
equipment or you did not consider a
serious problem and so I am definitely
in favor of doing bigger bases in
certain very very hostile locations like
Antartica to make sure we've got some of
the basics down right how soon do you
think asteroid mining will become
commercially available 20 years is
always such a great number for these
things because you don't know I don't
think we're gonna see it in the 2020s
but that could change very easily the
question is when you have a rocket and
you have automation that's the big one
that's good not to be able to do some of
this stuff on its own because there's go
light lagging for near-earth asteroids
there's gonna be too much light light to
control them remotely
mm-hmm and so when we have a degree of
automation that can actually do
something where the asteroids been sawed
and without needing direct human
oversight and I'd say the rock tree gets
a little cheaper than is now then an
asteroid is definitely a possibility
the trick is it needs to be you've got
two ways you can do asteroid you can
drag it back to earth which is insanely
expensive or you can do all your mining
or finding they are and I think to be
profitable you'd probably need to do the
latter and the question is just win to
those hits and I would say five years
after that that tipping point hits
someone will be doing it Andrew can says
Ganymede is the best place for
colonization is that why nobody talking
about it why is nobody talking about it
I assume that says Ganymede is a good
location for colonization song as you
wanna live on the surface it's it's
pretty radioactive they are it's got
higher gravity in our places there's the
biggest moon in the solar system
Callisto right nearby it is is in some
ways a better location
Europa's got some advantages but the
issue is you always have to worry about
what's going on at your actual base if
you want to be up above if you're doing
science there you probably want to be
able to see stuff which means something
above the surface and the enemy at this
time is not really a good location where
radiation is concerned and you already
gained so much radiation just going out
there so I do think Ganymede will be one
of our all your bases that we have in
place probably even before Titan which
is usually considered one the best place
to do but I'd say moon and mars and then
some of the asteroids and then venus
would probably be the order just because
both the convenience of doing them and
where people want to go you know we're
very tied up on mars you make a very
good case that Venus it's a better
location to colonize force than Mars but
we're still gonna do Mars forced it's
where we want to go and I see a comedy
here we should do an ocean based forced
yeah the episode for this Thursday on
seasteading is actually bout artificial
islands but two episodes after that
we'll be doing colonizing the oceans and
we will look at ocean bases then it's
space pirates um
space pirates again are another common
staple of science fiction
and unfortunately probably one that's
gonna stay strictly fictional there's
and the section we talk about more in
battle for the moon but the biggest
problem is that stealth issue you can
attack someone in space but they're
gonna see you coming a long way out and
then one's gonna see what you did you
can't fly with the horizon and host the
pirate flag the Jolly Roger and then you
know do some privateering and then go
back to normal shipping they'll know
that you did it so that's a bit of a
problem there a crime episode would be
great doc but great
I agree rude that crime would be a fun
one future crime would be a fun one to
look at especially some of the staples
like freezing people as a punishment we
might do that one we've talked about
that episode but it's just one of those
ones well we always have so many more
topics and we can cover and I always
feel we have to be presenting something
new should to justify an episode I don't
ever like to repeat just you know what
everybody already knows on that subject
and there will be one of those ones
where I have not really come with a lot
of new material on it yet I feel really
justify the conversation at this stage
let's see
I really do not like this chat window
it's very hard to keep track everything
in do you think a major spacefaring
civilization requires a global
monopolization over force I'm not
entirely clear what you mean they are
aldrick but if you think do we need a
major spacefaring civilization to
actually you know be a one-world
government I would say no I mean our one
example of actually getting to the moon
will cry out a very fierce competition
thankfully a mostly peaceful one between
the Soviet Union in the United States
and that's an example of competition
helping out getting a lot of ideas out
there I don't know that we'd have gone
to the moon at least then if we hadn't
had that drive there are always benefits
to walking together there are always
benefits to having a bit of a rivalry as
a whole I before walking together over
live where we especially we gets too out
of hand but I don't see any major
motivation why you have to have a single
unified Empire as a war to to do space
exploration the author has about two
other countries on it and we've been
getting a lot of stuff done you know
that's that of course just kind of comes
down to what people think is about a way
of administrating things see
do you think politics government is a
likely place where singularity AIS can
excel at such as coming up with fail
policies that's a good question because
that that is again that's none of the
staples of science fiction that we would
have computers doing all all judging and
the prom is to have judgment to have
what we think of as justice
you do need a person actually thinking
about that so I don't think you can have
a mindless AI it's going to have to be
very sentient and very capable of
understanding people and at that point
in time I really don't see a way where
you prevent it from having biases same
as anybody else does or having
preferences we have these these kind of
filters or biases from our experiences
in life and it's going to have those two
so I don't really think that that that
option is going to be something that
gets you a more neutral observer as war
I don't think people would like it
either but doesn't mean they might not
adjust to it or that might not have
advantages I just don't think it's
automatically necessarily going to give
you a more neutral objective process
question you mentioned in an oral video
you'd be considering covering the topic
of spaceborne life still thinking about
that topic
yes that is one I usually call that void
ecology we are definitely going to do a
video on that at some point but it keeps
getting put off because we keep doing
preliminary videos like environmental
space habitats coming up fairly soon
that was really gonna be ecology of
space habitats but we focus more on the
weather and aspects of it so we came
environment to space habitats we will
discuss this topic at some point and
it's a fun one it's uh not sure how
realistic it is in terms are slightly
hood to happen but it is interesting to
see how you might create a a non
intelligent ecosystem in a solar system
basically a Dyson swarm of you know
critters space borne critters Lavie in a
vacuum and it's also a good chance to
see kind of like what is the genuine
difference at the hyal of us or
technology between something that's
artificial and cybernetic versus
something that's genetically engineered
Thank You Finn I have not read swimming
in 3d fields just trying to go through
some of these questions because I know
I'm skipping a ton of them
what if intelligent life is so rare that
we never contacted and what if
interstellar space travel proves being
possible we got two questions they are
from Finn I tend to and I don't make
much of a secret of it I'm a pretty big
believer that life intelligent life or
at least technological civilizations all
ultra rare that they are one of those
things you be lucky you found a single
one in the galaxy and that will become
high when time obviously I don't expect
us to and I think that when we say what
if the life Israel like that I think the
answer is well what we have right now
someone eventually pops up they find
that area of they owes mostly empty
already and they go ahead and colonize
it the problem of course always being
that you really don't find these things
mostly empty they're either empty or
they'll all completely taken up the
statistical odds of two civilizations
popping up at the same time a galaxy if
life is that real intelligent life
anyway is very small because you talk
about about a million year window and
that probably is a good thing in many
respects because well I love the space
opera thing where you got millions of
civilizations in one galaxy I the only
we can have them continue you know
relatively close to each other in time
so they're not all disadvantaged is that
they all came from the same civilization
was something Jean Michel Gautier and I
were discussing and whatever more recent
episodes is if you want alien
civilizations just wait and they are
lies because we'll make them and what if
it turns out to be impossible to do
interstellar travel you know by now it
is impossible for us to do it but it's
not actually banned and it the science
does look like we can do it in might
turn out to be impractical and if that's
the case that's one possible answer the
for me paradox but I don't see that
being too likely just as a rule until
we've been at this game long ago we were
doing space fly for less than a century
I don't want to be ruling it out or
something that we can't do I think it's
way too premature to be considering that
the sign seems to indicate that we can
but would change a lot of things and it
would change I answer the foamy paradox
to question during your video of space
weaponry space weaponry what is your
thought of railguns like in Mass Effect
or plasma weaponry like in Metroid and
played Metroid in a long time like 1990
thank you for your videos it's fun to on
thank you
railguns are a very good way to go about
sending large amounts of mass but I'm
not sure they make for great weapons in
the long term I think eating it's going
close to speed of light right from the
get-go like a laser is going to have a
lot more advantages or plasma they are
very good way to engage in bombardment
but the promise you but they don't need
a lot of additional ways to do that um
you always just drop something out of
the spaceship in most cases so has to
hand portable ones that's just a
portable power issue we discussed that
in in portable power if a weapon is
limited to basically chemical energies
or modern batteries you can't have a
handheld weapon that would be a you know
the railgun people discuss so if they
can miniaturize that more than there you
go otherwise I don't think there'd be us
our small arms type weapon
why do you think it's the school's
weight on me now when do you think
starshot will get off the ground and
running I do not know I would like to
see it get moving obviously we're very
big in the concept of laser proportion
here but that is one of those things
where you're going to need a real power
satellite but I think in place for stuff
we do anything other than than test
probes and I do not think that seniya
probe there only weighs a few grams to
another solar system is really where we
might be looking at right now
a few DOE just kind of check whether or
not the system is capable of doing that
yes but space probes are heavier
failures people tend to forget the thing
that landed on Mars you know the
Pathfinder over that thing weighed a ton
you know the Voyager very heavy system
we've learned a miniaturised awful lot
since then but you're always going to
have that radiation issue in space and
so that you're looking at big old probes
and in order to do those you're going to
need gigawatt power lasers that can
sustain that and I think that requires a
pretty pretty significant orbital power
good forced question what do you think
about uplifting uplifting primitive
civilizations we do do an episode on
that Brian I take this particularly to -
I don't know it's one of those
case-by-case situations there's great
examples for going wrong or going right
there's an example and the obviously
install check a lot but in Dennis
Taylor's we are legion
Bob of all series where they do it and
it mostly turns out like it has some
problems the issue is if you land and
you start talking to one tribe and you
uplift them what about their neighbors
they go conquer them possibly for their
own goods or they go to war them to the
other state their heels in in it's it's
like in case we are involving yourself
in somebody else's affairs you're gonna
have some problems
doesn't mean you shouldn't do it that
that's mothers questions where I think
we really need to find an example forest
I don't have an ethical issue though
with doing something I say uplifting
dolphins they're not really in a
position to understand the process so we
can't ask them in advance and in that
case we just have to make it but our
judgment and I think so long as you're
making these decisions calmly and
patiently and in everybody's interest
not just your own
you can't you'll come up with a
civilized answer it might not be the
best one will be an ethical one question
when what do you think of bio weapons
not much bio weapons are very hard to
target most militaries do not like them
for that reason we actually discuss them
and go to the moon they are almost
useless on space colony as our chemical
weapons because every breath of air is
filtered and monitored with advanced
warning you can get against them very
well and if you don't have advanced
point it is so easy for it to miss the
target and that's kind of last thing you
ever want in a military campaign is a
weapon that doesn't go where you want it
to you kill your own troops your own
citizens your neighbors your neutral
third parties so and of course I don't
much care for the man general principle
but obviously they can be very effective
but has weapons of mass destruction go
I'm not terribly fond of any of them but
that would probably be my least favorite
one they'll an ethical and logistical
nightmare see question do you like Auto
Harrington it would be a great Netflix
series I do like the forced five or six
books this would be David Webber's
Auto Harrington series the classic one
is on basileus station and that is a
great read I do like them I kind of felt
like after the first five or six the
characters I start to get a little bit
weak or we've a follow-up on that and
what about black meal I've seen three
episodes of black meal I'm I trying to
who recommended me to us and it and I
kind of turned off by the very first
episode which was the one involving the
the pig if you seen the show you know
what I discuss I do normally like
anthology shows and one tells me it's
great but I haven't gotten one to
catching any more of it recently and yes
this to the previous question I do think
Otto Harrington would be a great thing
to see on Netflix and I do love that
Amazon Netflix hull finally letting us
have a lot more science fiction that's a
decent quality let's see
what you think about the Gateway
foundation I like them they're still
getting started I mean obviously we
didn't episode with them so whether or
not we'll get that spaceport up there
that's the right way to be looking so
can you comment on plans that the giant
spaceport I've seen videos about I think
that that's probably the same question
can you comment on plans for the giant
spaceport I've seen videos on about
YouTube there's quite a few of them
[Music]
buying V spoke who does so many of the
animations for a lot of these spinning
colonies and allow the space habitats on
most they've been proposed he does um
some really great work on that and they
like a plan of one or a few are those
Fraga Merrick there's some very good
ones too and of course quite a few
actually do some very great renderings
of them it's so you'd have to specify
which one you meant by that but there's
a lot of spaceport designs it just
depends on how much people are willing
to throw in and what's the expected
amount of usage I do think that for the
next phase we are going to need one that
has a spinning section at either Moon or
Mars gravity though so easier to build
this is that's gravity and they don't
need to be as wide but that's the next
question we need to answer is how long
can people live in low gravity and
people say why doesn't the ISS have a
voting section man there's two reasons
one it's a bit of a bit of a maintenance
nightmare to try to connect the two and
two we have places we can do experiments
in gravity we have exactly one place in
the known universe right now where we
can actually perform zero-gravity
experiments so the ISS we don't really
want to put gravity on the Orcas what we
want to see is what no gravity does but
for the next phase of operations we all
gonna need something that lets you
simulate Moon or Mars gravity for
prolonged periods so we can see if
people can live there you know we don't
know yet it might be just a little
gravity is enough one might try not to
be a big problem
question what do you think will be the
force economically and technologically
viable alternative rockets for taking
stuff into space and win from Michael
Kozlowski quick no fight jump that
question if you've already done a
question I skipped right by it go ahead
and retype it at some point because I'm
having problems scrolling through the
chat as no two rockets I you know if
you'd asked me two or three years
who said that markets were probably not
going to be what we could do from the
near future that we'd have to switch
over something like the skyhook or stole
tram and SpaceX kind of proved me wrong
on that one they've been doing some
amazing stuff with rockets with reusable
rockets and launch cars I would still
tend to think something like the skyhook
or something like star tram or laughs
strums large loop is the next one we had
to do for any kind of serious Kongo
usages but when we say serious we'd be
talking about putting you know tons of
material into space every day until you
start getting in the area where you're
doing lots afraid probably I can make a
ton of year you can get away with just
using rockets and probably save money
over building one of large items but I
would tend to think something like star
I am or the launch loop would be the way
we'd have to go if we want to seriously
develop infrastructure and of course at
some point probably an orbital ring are
you married no I'm not question what
type of drugs might we see in the space
or the future I'm not going to touch
that one excuse me who knows probably
ten times as addictive as things we have
now you used to use the cultural series
as a science fiction example of things
did you just not want to keep using the
same thing or was there some other
reason you know I've actually been stay
away from the cultural series because I
thought it was going to get its own show
and I wanted to look at the the banks or
the ring or some of the other concepts
they had they are when the show like
that was coming out and there's more
enthusiasm for them you know we were
always with a lot of these concepts
we're trying to reach new audience that
might suddenly be interested in it and
I'm a very big fan of Iain M banks walk
in I would say my favorite one by him is
actually accession or use of weapons but
can still fly but if we consider fleebus
tends to be the one most people know
from the bank so opponents is forced
cultural series novel I was very happy
here that that wasn't a production we'll
see if it you know a lot of things get
optioned and we'll see if that does
actually make it a screen but that would
be when we tend to talk about it more or
if they say no we're not doing it then
we might go ahead and do something
anyway
will you please do an episode debunking
moon conspiracies a lot of people don't
believe the United States sent
astronauts to the moon
perhaps you do there's this polity 5,000
K sub special you know I when it comes
to a lot of these like we never landed
on the moon or in the North being flat
I tend to feel a lot of folks who
believe these things I'll really just do
me out of kind of a stubborn negative
attitude I don't like to feed the trolls
at war too if they want to believe that
so it's not for serious - and they're
welcome to do so
hi guys can probably guess I can still
it pretty ludicrous and there's always
an extra component Winchell field when
you in physics so rocketry are your
mentors for the people who are involved
in things like the Apollo project you
know you're not gonna know anybody in in
physics who who isn't got a teacher or
mentor who you know walk to the
Manhattan Project or what for someone
who did I guess now there's little bit
or walk down the Apollo project and when
people say things like the moon landing
never happened
you know you get pretty close to your
mentors I don't think I certainly did
and it's kind of like calling them all a
bunch of liars and they're usually you
know they're kind of smallest people you
ever met the idea that they'd be keeping
a secret like that from you is pretty
ridiculous so there is a there was a
portion or component on things like the
moon conspiracy that makes me stay away
from it I would tend probably want to
scream at people if they did and they're
not wanting me so let them keep their
viewpoints on that metal question do you
think Kessler syndrome can be so out of
hand that we can't leave our plants for
thousands of years no the biggest threat
from Kessler syndrome is short-term
clutter in space that would hit you in
low orbit and that pretty much by its
very nature doesn't persist too long you
could be decades but the stuff in high
orbits could but there's a lot of stuff
in high orbits too and there's a lot
more space what spread out around to so
Kessler syndrome could leave a planet
unable to space travel for decades but
in the launch home probably not and
they're always to clear that out again
laser booms being a good example you
just shoot the stuff with lasers and we
already have ground-based lasers that
can hit satellites
question do you think space colonization
have a peaceful chance nations in or
thoughts still very divided so I do I
think space colonization for peaceful
nations on earth is possible I do think
we can do space colonization without
actually having be unified again during
the court war I don't want to say all
the advancements that we made in the
space race well because the Soviet Union
and the u.s. were at each other's
throats
but at the same time it's only sport on
a lot of the funding Allah the the push
for it I don't prefer to do things that
way I put a cooperate with the various
countries get things done but I don't
think you actually have to to
necessarily be a really close and tight
with everybody to actually achieve space
colonization you look at colonization
classically throughout history and it's
usually not been done by a great unified
force but individual city states or
countries that will rival in with each
other anyway how do extraterrestrials
drink beer on ice maybe I know I got a
bad habit of drinking this stuff
lukewarm while I was in Europe and it
was my fun teeth are fake too so I don't
like cold liquids very much so maybe
they drink them warm hard to say you're
gonna have a fermentation process or
something pale or adding place your
biology though so they're all probably
very likely to discover did question
would you agree that the solution to the
Fermi paradox must be universal and the
only universal assumption we can make is
the definition of life trying to define
life isn't itself actually very tricky
one whatever the actual primary answer
the funny paradox is almost has to be
universal the trick beam that and we get
that but we call the end of greatness
above 300 million light years across the
universe starts being very homogeneous
at that point very similar though that
wouldn't necessarily be the same across
all that distance - there's nothing
really unique about our chunk of the
that would explain why we all have a
silence in other places would not unless
it was just a we were like the lotto
winners well you know the voice of us
being sentient and nobody else being we
won the lottery rather they were voice
that in most the universe life is very
common but he or we you know nobody's
ever won a lottery except for us and
that statistically strange that and most
placing to have thousands of species by
now the problem is that um you know we
can see a billion light years away and
and we're looking at billion years back
in time and there's no particular reason
think the universe you know could only
just start having life right now that we
wouldn't see civilizations like that so
I do think it does have to be uniform so
as to the definition of life that's
gonna be a much trickier one I usually
go with the definition of intelligence
for the Fermi paradox because again I
think intelligent life would be pretty
common I saw not intelligent life life
in general I do you expect be pretty
common what do you think about putting a
mass driver on the moon or balls I love
the idea for the moon form always a
little bit tricky or you'd probably go
ramp up to the side of something like
the like olympus mons there they're all
quite a few large mountains near the
equator there that would be a good pick
for the moon the nice thing is there's
no atmosphere at all even Mallis has
enough an atmosphere you have to worry
about drag at those kind of speeds so
you can just run I you don't really need
an enclosed one you can just run up with
a boat rack around the the moon and get
up to I think we calculate 11 kilometers
a second as your large velocity if
you're doing 1g around thing but ya mass
drive on the moon is almost a no-brainer
it's it's one of the best ways to do it
you don't have to build tall but if you
do need to go over craters things like
that it's very easy to do the structural
because of the low gravity and the lack
of wind pushing on stuff so they're much
easier to build there and I do think we
all wonder you've managed to be using as
a raw material source for for things in
earth low orbit or cislunar space is
that you can just get mass off the moon
so much easier a keeps disappearing
questions on me
one moment
do you think sidewalks will be the first
humans to really live in space no I mean
it depends on what your definition of
cyborg is and if you mean by living
space live in the vacuum then they'd
almost have to be cyborgs but I do think
that a lot of early colonists would
probably be cyborgs if that technology
was available at the time but there's no
particular advantage one way or another
hmm no my voice is not
computer-generated what I think someone
could do a better job what would be the
future of automobiles and electric calls
um but probably that the automobiles
will probably start shifting to electric
there's a lot of downsides to electric
vehicles right now I probably want you
to repeat them all but living in the
country as I do you definitely notice
the idea when you're driving 50 or 60
mile was how hard it can be the refill
or you know have to stop and recharge as
batteries improve though I think that is
the way that we'd end up going right now
though um you know to recharge a battery
you're using the same plug that's giving
you electricity which in my case at
least comes from a nuclear power plant a
few towns over but typically this would
be something called coal or gas file and
you know generally you want to have an
oil if you're if you're making your
energy through oil or coal and make some
sense to have it in the actual engine on
the car instead of battery-powered but
that's all going to change with time and
we'll just have to see how battery power
and alternative energy sources work out
economically as time goes on I don't
think we're gonna have flying cause
that's always the big one is where we
have flying cars one day and you
suddenly have aircraft we already have
aircraft but you know I don't think that
you've ever want to have flying cars
ramming into each other huh no miles now
did you ever play D&D yes I've been
playing Dungeons and Dragons since my
teens I was horrified to find out that
had been in which twenty years I was
playing typically these days I play
Pathfinder they're doing a new addition
hobby so is D&D and I'm a little bit
iffy on that for anyone if it wasn't
clear that Dungeons & Dragons it's a
tabletop board game with pen and paper
and I'm still funny but I still think
it's better than video games and I
actually I still tuned in by it's it's
how I know how to you
especially with my webcam is fall in the
fourth place was tuning into a game that
a friend of mine ones in Buffalo so and
let's see Isaac where did you give you a
space canvases from their cool Amazon
those are actually very classic ones for
mmm spaced out you can just look up
space hole and you can probably find the
exact same one so it up in selection so
very a typically you usually don't hang
paintings two feet off the ground but
when this your backdrop because you're
seeing it usually helps to have that so
the rest of my house does have some
things like that in there but it's
mostly jigsaw puzzles and tapestries and
bookshelves in this bookshelves what you
think of solo freaking roadways I I mean
if you could make it strong enough as
well as cheap enough and with traction
then it does make sense to use a load
for solar power I have to say that I
would not generally tend to think that
was the best place to set those up I'd
rather do something like houses but you
know you you want that energy and it's
they all caused rally over where we got
to keep it clear but you can't I can't
see had to sweep them off they're gonna
get snow on them you're gonna have cars
driving all of them you're gonna have
snow piles going over them it needs to
be stored unit used to be cheap or
you're better off doing something like
roofs and I do like roof based solar
power what do I think about the steady
state theory not much these days
obviously there are still some
variations on that that'll go around and
we could see some the other part of
scale like for instance we could be part
of a larger universe or which I was just
a bubble we don't actually know about
that and we can't see outside of the
coin absorber universe anyway but it's
only a possibility you could have cyclic
universes Thank You Larry for anyone
who's been wondering I've had speech
therapy for about a year now it is
getting better but it's very slow
process so and to add to that we're
trying not to mess around with my tone
of voice very much because it's it's
it's a little bit too much me for us to
mess around with so we're just walking
on the Rada sysm although I
actually have problems with all the
glides which are W's and ELLs too so you
know basically your Abbot's and whale
guns we'll see how that walks out but
it's time-consuming so maybe another
year or so will be less obvious than
it's now but I'm glad to hear it some
food for everyone
question do you think we will uplift
animals in the future and if you're so
do you expect to be legislate like
stem-cell research
I'm quite sure that we're do it at some
point and I would think we probably
would regulate it but it's gonna be a
while hey Isaac if you lived at the end
of the Iron Age or in some form what
would you use the last bit of power for
I assume you mean the iron star eh what
would I do with that last bit of power
the thing about these is they turned you
a black hole at the end and they're
gonna release all that power is a big
explosion towards the end not quite an
explosion I think you know who was just
me and we had everybody stored still I
probably try to wake everybody up for
one last day you know there's the one
cool thing about the black hole you are
and the I own story is if you can
survive to them you get power back and
you get a large amount of growing power
as the things decay and mass they give
off more energy and you know time
doesn't mean too much in that contact so
about how much energy you have power
wise I think I would try to run
everybody one more time and you could
probably give everybody and even even
for the ungodly amounts of population
you've had a wall that time just run
everybody for one last day one last year
whatever you could do so and you know
better to go out with a bang um let's
see do you believe that super capacitors
beat lithium batteries in the near
future
probably not the near future but there's
there's areas they are anything that can
get battery power better then better
then we have right now chemical energy
is gonna be a huge boon to us and then
the does seem like graphene super
capacitors open at all for that question
can you make a video where you share
your thoughts on the movies interstellar
and all arrival no I like Christopher
Nolan as a director
I happen to like inception quite a lot
in memento from back in the day even
though inception spots very bad I did
not like interstellar and I have not
seen the arrival so I wouldn't want to
win a monarchy judgements on arrival I
fought good and bad things interstellar
I yeah - if you watched channel a lot
that movie papi seems pretty unrealistic
to you as well so but you know
cinematically was beautiful and and that
you know that to me though does not
necessarily make for a great sci-fi
movie I thought the act was did a good
job too and but I don't know I really
don't review movies there are other
people who do that battle SF debris
another channel you can try out sometime
though he's mostly off YouTube great one
if you like see reviews on science
fiction he gives them proper treatment
so well I'll leave him to that business
and you know make comments on these
things occasionally question what you
think personally is the most interesting
mystery in the universe and cosmology
dark energy dark energy we you know dark
made me a little bit boy just one type
of particle we don't know much about yet
but finally out there is one that does
interact with anything but gravity would
not be that peculiar to me we got ones
that don't interact with the weak or
strong nuclear force for instance funny
out what the L big priority but dark
energy is an entirely different thing
because it's there's just so many
options for how that could affect how
the force can turn out in long term
where we came from whereas the energy
coming from is there something that it's
coming from that we could potentially
visit tap etc so I think that is to me
probably the most pressing cosmological
question to actually answer about the
universe Annamarie question do you think
we should only uplift apex predators
like ourselves I'm not so sure that I
really want to be uplifting lions or you
know I like cats and dogs we all love
cats and dogs and it's a standing joke
that says a lot about humanity that the
things we keep as pets all predators
not necessary sure that I would want to
have the competition from his species
that was naturally hypoglossal and
motorists you know I love my cats but
they all motor so Abasto excuse my
language
um so I wouldn't wanna limit just eight
that's photos anyway but uh I'd say
raccoons or dolphins like dolphins would
be quite nasty - but raccoons would
probably be my forced choice I love love
raccoons or elephants a lot of
low-hanging fruit up left them the force
plays come and speak in the UK you don't
actually do have to get over the UK at
some point to cybernetics augmentation
forces genetic alteration what's your
preference cybernetics generally
speaking because it gives you a lot more
fluidity especially working with that
dog with a lot of genetics you're going
to have to change everything and unless
screen them as a baby that's that's a
lot harder I need some either or I
figure most people who are into
cybernetics we found a correlation to
and there'll be cases where that's easy
or a better voice specific function so
as he has an either-or situation but
cybernetics does strike me as the easier
one to walk with Isaac we love your
channel what is the best way to support
you and help you continue I should
probably point out that youth who's got
memberships by having enable those yet
patreon we really have a link to and
pretty much every episode that's the
best way to go with that and if you're
doing one time there was a PayPal link
on the website and if you haven't got
the money to spend and you know just
click I think we do have ads on some of
the episodes click one of those or share
with some fans or just talk about with
people that's the best way to help get
the channel out there to other folks and
that's pretty much whole goal have you
read seven eyes there'll be neo
Stephenson seven eyes I have not
finished it yet it was one of the ones
we had as a contender for Book of the
Month for November we actually wanted
oughta miss by Andy wheel for that
that's for the Battle of the Moon
episode I didn't finish it yet I thought
it was a little heavy on exposition
which I normally approve of except I
already know most stuff he's talking
about so it was a little dull for me my
favorite book by him and one of my
favorite books period is his Snow Crash
from the 80s one of the original
cyberpunk novels and I did enjoy Krypton
Omicron but I felt that Stevenson needs
to find a lower key amount of exposition
to do in the books they get a little
long for my taste in that regard
question from Joe Barlow why do I love
raccoons they're cute they never caused
my caste problem
I said want to come bake Cheerios off me
off the porch they're very intelligent
not only the really idea was pet so I
gather some people have kept them that
way I just I think they're cute I know
why I bother be like cats and dogs but
foik riddle is hey I don't like snakes
much do you think we the force
generation to see the effects of in the
end of aging I'm not sure about my
generation I just had my birthday coming
up and everyone mistakenly thinks I'm 26
cuz I lie about my age all the time I'm
just very bad at I'm 38 right now and
maybe not for my generation I think
people being born today I think you know
right now in 2018 they were now should
be dying off in the early 24 so 22nd
century and I think a lot of them will
not be doing so whether or not it's
something we'll see in this one I mean
we do have an episode coming up I should
plug the episode we are walking with our
B degree and the Sens Research
Foundation and we have an episode coming
out on November forced science of Aging
and that will be going over a lot of
science and why we do think it is
something that you could see in the side
this century inside the next 20 years
the biggest thing on that as we'll see
in that episode is that it's not that
it's all that highly technical and
impossible do it's that there's not a
lot of support for right now because
people don't feel like it's possible to
do it and you know when you feel like
you're working in something that might
be impossible know what gets done and
our biggest hoarder right now is that
research and funding wise in terms of
getting new talent getting funny for
that talent getting public support for
it a lot of people don't feel like it's
there and you know once you decide you
gonna fly it doesn't take a lot for
somebody make an airplane once your side
you want to go to the moon and what that
take us to two decades so we can move
fast when we need to there's no
guarantees about stuff like that but if
we want to see an end of age in our
lifetime we had to get out there and
start encouraging people to support this
kind of research and and feel like it is
plausible and in that episode we will
show that it is so
mmm question what you think is the
realistic scientific depiction of
telekinesis telekinesis that's probably
by the scientific as it gets you can
always build something that's going to
you know move stuff up for you I don't
think there's any psychic control
overall mind and Maddow as people would
often say then will we get a dream team
episode of Isaac jmg and facial Kane um
I'm actually going to be doing an
interview with John tomorrow evening
actually it won't Hale for a couple of
weeks so easy to start up a podcast
that'd be like three of us talking live
so I'm gonna have no voice at all by
then and that will not be on video so
I'll be able to smoke doing it and I
talked facial reasoning but I don't
think we've even been on there for a
while getting all three of us in the
room some time for chat like this very
very possible in fact I probably had
both the man here at some point in time
though maybe now at the same time I
don't usually like to do more than one
person at once you know conversations
because I feel like you get a bit of
action wishes to people so but obviously
if the blew through them felt like doing
something I'd be only too glad to do so
so and our leaders a two-channel is a
real closer with so well maybe Joe Joe
Scott isn't a good example let's see but
yeah we'll probably do something else
with them besides obviously no view on
Monday why is everyone here so much more
optimistic about the end of aging than
the prospect of fusion wishful thinking
um good question I'm not sure people
have really pessimistic about both at
times I think it's because they've often
been promised in in topside not in real
science science never come out and
policies things in 20 years but articles
will come out saying Oh Fusion is just
20 years from now and they keep saying
and it's not the scientists saying that
it's maybe one random scientists thing
he has a lead but she was just that
publication saying in bad journalism is
is a cause for an awful lot of hype sup
science that causes pessimism about it
and that actually I don't like to blame
them for everything any son but you know
a lot of things like flat olefin and the
moon
landing hoax I think to point back to a
lot of overhyped popular science
articles that irresponsibly promise
people stuff and so they remember that
it's that was wrong so everything else
want to you count on you hand the number
of times that physics has been wrong
about a theory in the last century and I
think it's to our fingers over left over
holding a pen but if you were just going
about a pop science stuff you'd get the
impression it was every day so let's see
what P and P RPG is do you play other
than D&D what pen and paper role-playing
games do I play other than D&D
Pathfinder these days
riffs way back in the day palladium a
little bit of white wolf and I actually
got a copy of the one for the Warhammer
40k doll KOC when I went for scream as
I'm both day present from bill bill is
my best friend by the way and we never
got a chance to play it that's as one
the downside you start collecting lots
of copies of all PG is and you know a
chance to play them but mostly the assay
is pass final with new techniques that
will allow people to live a bit longer
in good health
maybe generations born the 24th century
old so that wasn't actually a question
that was me saying something question
have you seen my hero academia I have
not question what are your thoughts on
mass scale production of synthetic fuels
such as man-made crude oil and how can
be applied in the future biofuels like
LJ or ones made from you know if you
have a fusion based economy or just a
very energy rich one like a power
satellite system or even just like
thorium if we got really really big with
doing that we've enough energy abundance
you can make fossil fuels they wouldn't
be faster off yours obviously but you
can make synthetic fuels that's gonna be
an energy negative process but it's like
batteries you know if you come now if it
takes twice as much energy to make a
gallon of gasoline that's often gonna be
worth it
we use batteries and a lot of things and
people tend to forget the price of
energy in your typical double-a battery
is about a thousand times what you're
paying for out the outlets even with
charging your phone those are those
batteries they do not hold as much
energy as you're probably thinking and
they could run a microwave for maybe 30
seconds you know
and yet there was a very expensive
batteries an expensive energy to charge
them so anytime you can make a portable
fuel that you know is going to produce a
lot of energy when you use it like
synthetic gasoline it's probably gonna
turn out to be worth it for its
portability that said something like
that you got to keep mind that would be
calm in neutral because you'd be sucking
called the Navi aorta to make it it's
hydrocarbons water and carbon dioxide
and there was a plentiful question what
do you think of Frank Herbert's dune
series I love Franco what dune series
I'm not I'm a little more torn on the
ones that his son and buy and I saw a
kimchi Anderson did although they all
both go divided I was I just I'm kind of
iffy about those books dune is it's a
classic for a reason it was actually one
of our book of the months and it's got
some bad science or plot holes in it
back in that day you couldn't Wikipedia
stuff to double-check but Franco but was
a great vital and he's usually won the
top three list on sci-fi and and well
well deservedly so I would certainly
recommend reading the force book and if
you choose to read more than the force
book make sure you get up to the least
that forced four books up to god emperor
of doom after that if you enjoying it
read more if not they're not there's a
really good audio book art that's got a
full cast with Stephen wood neck you
know them every I found it too but I
also was a very big fan well my favorite
movie is was the David Lynch fortune
from 1983 1983 came out about the same
time as Blade Runner which is also my
favorite film is played I know those two
movies had a huge impact on me and David
Lynch is a very strange very strange
director I'm over him with Twin Peaks
but he does some good walk they did a
mini-series on it as well as a sequel
Children of Dune in the early 2000s the
dune me series not so good that sure
don't do one very good and I'd certainly
recommend those of you I want to read
the books okay would you rather have a
fusion drive spaceship and worry about
lots of heat or metallic hydrogen ship
and worry about finding fuel refineries
Oh fusion definitely although if I could
do both because you know in our case
you're going to want a small compact
you can use just for a quick boosts you
know metallic hydrogen if we can
actually make that stored fuel and it's
got the energy density we think it has
would be normal Rockets hands down but
it it's got nothing on the kind of
energy released by fusion or roughly
pelo a nuclear thermal rocket question
for you it keeps doing that
so I by the way and so these questions
it keeps popping away to a different
screen as soon as I touch it that's that
what you think will be the future corn
see Coen see the future probably a Fiat
Co and say like we use now floating
vehicle or mostly floating fiat currency
the palm with commodity currencies is
that you always censored any
technological change in just that one
item plus in order for to act as a
currency it often gets removed from play
you know if everybody's using cigarettes
as a as a commodity currency that's a
very common example of a commodity
currency as well as they own a cigarette
and now you know those cigarettes should
keep you around when there's stale and
people are holding them rather than
smoking them so it's removed from play
and the same you know can't use a
perishable item so you can use app was
the basis for currency but what you
could do is use something like the Joule
or Watts poor meter square of energy
coming out the Sun as the basis for your
commodity currency and that's viable but
again it's leaving out any any other
aspects of the economy that are not
related to that and it's gonna be
subject to any change that you have in
the technology that's harvesting that
material so even things like gold or
silver those all valuable by giving
quakes were assuming no changes that was
always thing with alchemy if you can
start making gold from lead then you
destroyed that market whereas a fiat
currency more or less kind of runs on
the stability of that country and people
can argue about that one way or another
of course they do but that does strike
me as well people then I keep the
currency out as to cryptocurrencies
electric corn see the future of banking
is obviously in in electronics and those
have to be encrypted to be safe so in
that respect cryptocurrency is
definitely keep revising but if we're
living in two specifically things like
you know
Bitcoin where the the value is limited
to that encryption you're always gonna
have a problem that it takes more and
more energy to get the next you know
dollar out of that and that could cause
some bottlenecking issues but there are
also some ways to walk around that so
we'll have to see question have you
thought of visiting force contact video
topic again any new insights on it we
actually have we were why patreon port
office recently was whether or not we
would do another episode on forced
contacting a primitive civilization and
considering how many episodes of various
sci-fi shows have been around that we
can simply get away with to you know the
visit to that and I should just see it
coming from and John McCole Gautier
there about David Lynch walking and yes
he does but we did ask y'all what he did
a follow up on that with uplifting I
would like to look at some all the
options for that but we have to say it's
I'll be always has so many episodes do
which consider doing more types of shows
per week know we could do shorter
episodes but I couldn't do another topic
each week each of these episodes kind of
goes around my head you know in the
background for a while for it turns into
an episode and if we try to do more
episodes topic wise it would probably
hold us we could do long episodes a
little bit but even that might be
pushing once a week is pretty much where
I'm happy doing the Matt and then some
occasional bonus things like this into
the month or a special episode
your videos seem to always be very
optimistic and a future where you make
something similar idiocracy I'm not
seeing Antioch receipt outside I do not
know I afford good and bad things about
that about that movie question do you
have you read the robots of Gotham and
what you think of the work of Todd
Mallory is created I don't know I
haven't read that I've actually have a
hold of that book before I went to the
force thing miss thing is robots and
then Gotham City with Batman let's see
light lag makes a how to exchange
electronic money could there be a
physical in between currency exchange
bucks to gold or Jupiter box or box you
know that's that is actually one of
those examples where a commodity
currency can be very handy is when
you're trading between two entities that
really can tie their their systems
together very well they're all
electronic walk arounds for banking like
that I mean we did do banking before we
had electronics so you know that as a
factual but it's hard to do a voucher
all that all between Vega and off
because the people involved might be
dead or would take years to find out
that for them but I think that after you
know Stella and Anil galactic level
galactic level you probably would need
to have something like that that was
universally valued and then it would
just be seen what was that item what is
that item that tends to be stable and
value that you can move between systems
and expect it to realistically still be
stable in value when you arrive and that
there are so many things that could be
antimatter would be a great example of
that except it's not very stable and you
don't want to store it it could be
something as simple as an enriched
uranium or deuterium assuming wouldn't
be something like hydrogen but there is
an option for that you know you never
limited to just using one system you use
what works best for the occasion and it
could be something like data storage you
know that you're moving between systems
question are there any topics you've
covered in videos that you've had a big
change of opinion on power satellites
would be the force one there sometimes
you've used you change on things I used
to think power satellites was a hole
right here it's basically one giant
death way to point a planet but there
are safety measures you can take with
that and options into
the value for that that make me think
that it's actually not just not a bad
idea but rather might be the one that
really lets us actually started
developing space and where they kick
stone space industry episode coming up
in early December December 6 where we'll
we'll be looking at some of those and
that'll be one of the ones we focus on
but yeah that's one of the ones where I
changed my viewpoint on it entirely off
the top my head I can't think of any
others but I've certainly had chains of
you over the years so question do you
think environmentalism will become a
thing on the wards we colonize and
harvest like years on earth John depends
on what you mean by environmentalism
obviously it's a very large movement
with a lot of different definitions and
focuses if you take a former planet you
are taking centuries to to you know
carefully create the entire ecology of
that planet and probably having to tell
a lot to individual specifics it's
something you've been micromanaging a
lot I think that people would be pretty
touchy about messing with that system so
you would certainly see people who are
opposing any reckless behavior on that
but that's you know I think most people
tend to feel that you need to be very
careful with the environment around you
and I really can't see that changing in
the future solely not on plants we've
actually created them the environment
from scratch have you had a on by Greg
Greg Bale and not recently but sigh yeah
it's Bayeux is another one of my
favorite authors let's see you're all
getting probably pretty close to we
should stop here so I'm gonna try to hit
a couple more questions and then we'll
just go with the schedule ok can close
out
when do you think humans would force
leave the solar system I would imagine
the forced person to leave and obviously
have to find where's the end of the
solar system they are but if you mean to
coach would like the Oort cloud that
would be seen oh they're annoyed to the
Kuiper belt that would be sooner than
going to Alpha Centauri the first time
we went to an auto car was well over a
century ago it was another 50 years out
therefore we had our force base and
another 50 is out that way too
Oh point one went to the moon fifty
years ago and now we're just think about
doing a real base now to climb Mount
Everest and we still have opponent base
up there the force person do somebody
could be in a century or could be in two
centuries but it's almost never going to
be this thing keeps going on after that
yeah as a steady thing we're just starts
that day and keeps going I think that
regular human transit between other
solar systems as many centuries off but
first posture can do it could be as only
as in this century even it just depends
on what technologies come into play with
enough animation or a really good sheep
fusion sauce you already have the
technology to build something like that
so if somebody want to throw money out
they could certainly get that done with
those technologies okay
what do I think of the foundation oh I'm
sorry that's not a question I was mixing
love will you update your wormhole
videos at all that's probably a good one
to close out on and yes we will be doing
more live streams the future I don't
like to redo episodes I feel like it's
kind of cheating the audience to redo
topics but I'm increasingly having it
pointed out to me that a lot of times
folks haven't even seen those and we
always have more to cover so the the FTL
series is one of the ones that would
definitely the fashion light series that
included wormholes is one of those areas
where we're almost something up redoing
it we may have the chance at the time
just there's so much more to discuss
they are but and we often since going to
be redoing the disk Wars Episode plays
soon I really don't like to redo topics
unless we can revisit them with
genuinely new information though but
those episodes well in that period where
we were doing like Fatima Depp's ODEs
and I was tacky as fast as I possibly
could so we could limit the graphics so
yeah we probably will we do that let's
find a last question here has to be when
I can actually answer would you and Jo
Scott be planning a live stream together
uh possibly at some point I don't know I
Jaffa to help give me a hand game set
with live streaming and I thought I had
a completely of control that we came on
a Oh half an hour Leon accent so I'm
going to have to go apologize to him for
not taking up on that he said it awful
but Jo and I talk fairly regularly so I
wouldn't be surprised when it comes to
what we do in future episodes you know
I've got this is the first time we've
done this and I said I didn't want to
actually have any set plan and so we'd
already done this one time and seeing
what was like being on guests I've had a
couple of folks we've already you know
that unsurprisingly give offer to come
on board and do a show with us and I
think yeah definitely that would be
something we'll probably do in the
future if Jo was over my for it but I
think we want to hold off on anything
like that until I'm more confident with
the with the live stream thing however
having known this first time I do feel
pretty confident that we would we will
continue to do this I think that we were
popping up doing them on weekends as
opposed to the actual last day for
instance October would be on Halloween
the middle of Wednesday so me most
likely will do this again on the last
Sunday of October but will will decide
after today any YouTube channels you
recommend well actually that's a great
way to end it there are tons of channels
that we do recommend they are on the
recommended side the YouTube thing and
yeah I think that's probably where we
close out so there we go over the
schedule real quick and we will finish
out for this upcoming week
we will be having our episode on si
studying artificial islands which server
we spend the rest of this afternoon
making the video for and then we are on
to the million year arc which
regeneration ships episode four then
we'll be doing colonizing oceans to
finish out the discussion of what we saw
and see stating this week then
environment of space habitats we will
look more inside what these places are
actually like not just from the outside
you know spinning can then it's on to
science of Aging which is a
collaboration with Aubrey de Grey in the
Sens Research Foundation then it is
reclaiming the desert on November 8th
which will be another follow up on the
earth 2.0 series talking about basically
tale for me on deserts well it was a
very good episode about that by real
engineering and other channel I'd
recommend and then we will be doing the
battle for the moon episode I've been
talking about which is the book of the
month autumn is by Andy wheel on
November 15th and if you want to see
more of those we do have to link up for
that on Facebook and other places you
can see what's coming up you know many
many weeks in advance we usually write
them about two months ahead of schedule
and then we do the video itself much
closer to the date I know sindri who's
our moderator at discord I just
mentioned that we do have a discord
channel you can always find the link to
that in episodes the discourse over I
usually pop on there for live chat just
audio chat every couple of weeks usually
on Sundays too and of course I'm on the
Facebook the Facebook forum very often
thank you Tom monkey by the way for the
random people I keep thanking out of
nowhere those are folks who are doing
these super chat thing which I finally
get around to figure out what that was
today too which means they are donating
and thank you very very much if you want
to help out you can do that will
probably do the YouTube
chips thing as I finally get around to
reading how that's done I'm always
looked behind on what the groups are
doing of course we have patreon and a
PayPal link it's on the website
Isak althought net there was a Bitcoin
one but I keep having problems getting
that to walk um it seems to crash on me
a lot and so beyond that I guess we will
close out for the day hopefully this
will be somebody people can watch later
in a broadcast and I don't know what
format we're going to stick to you in
the future possibly long ago if I could
figure out how to run breaks for
commercials or something so I can have a
cigarette I'll get a cup of coffee in
between them about anyway thank you guys
so much for joining me and for putting
up with probably highly technical itchy
first episode of the live stream I look
forward to seeing you next month for
this and of course we'll see you on
Thursday and have a great week
