okay but should be live in just a second
can you guys give me a check real quick
when it does go live okay I think we
should be going live right about this
second so welcome everybody to our
November into the month Q&A session and
we'll start taking questions right away
but forceful we jump into those and
while we make sure the audio and visual
stuff is fine we do have upcoming
schedule for the assemble you'll see
that flicking off to my left in just a
moment or so and there was also just an
interview with John Michael Gautier we'd
posted part 1 and part 2 just came out
last night after the Flat Earth SEPA
sowed the mega-structure was flat
Earth's episode Miami sighs they also
again really a lot of commentary on that
video about the Flat Earth theory not
really related to the episode so let's
go ahead and get started with questions
and while those are coming up as
everyone says hello hello everybody we
will try to hit everybody as much as
possible if you've had shows out there
once or twice you know go ahead and
repeat it a third time at most but if no
one sees it by then that probably means
you know we're not going to take that
question or both basically that we're
not going to take that question all
right we have a question from Harrison
and Sophia can you talk about cryonics
we didn't sleep Oh ships of course but I
have been thinking about doing a more
detailed episode on that at some point
in time because against evil ships was
really more about its application to
travel whereas with clinics in general
there is so much more that it has an
impact on can't we did with Life
Extension we did the life extension
episode and then we did the science of
Aging episode about a year later and I
think if we did one like that we might
want to talk to somebody like Alcor
that's what a bigger companies does
cryonics and see if they want to
participate because working with sends
for the science of Asia episode was
really very handy as to whether or not I
will walk I mean that's always kind of
hard to say because there's so much for
pale walk that you have to do this
the Anto has been infos and although
it's really a little bit more like being
dehydrated you're going to have to do a
lot of her pale walk and as we often
said that probably is gonna fall back on
either some genetic tinkering with
humans directly or nanotechnology and
someone said the live stream just
dropped is the live stream good can
someone hit yes if that's the case posi
and while we find out this technical
itch okay I'm going to assume for the
moment is actually good and just keep
talking anyway with Kai onyx if we can
actually make that walk if we can wake
people up right now we can face them no
that's not a problem we be able to
freeze them for quite some time
freezing them in a way that they'll
actually be potentially restorable
that's still tricky and of course the
part about actually restoring them
there's a whole nother story it is
essentially resurrection and whatever
you had when you went and got frozen is
going to be a bit of an issue you know
you have to be able to cure whatever it
is and typically speaking people use
this as a last resort so I do think it's
kind of those things that we're going to
figure out probably in the next century
or so but it's one of those things where
I don't think you'd use it to extend
your life and again we'll talk about
that more in a future episode and I
think we will probably do another
episode on that alright question from
Roche I heard someone mentioned slowing
time by placing someone between high
gravity gradients canceling each other
out yeah actually it was me is there a
detectable time dilation in deep caverns
there is actually more time dilation if
you get deeper and closer to the center
of the earth a slight missamma stain
people sometimes hair about that it's
not the force of gravity that's slowing
down it's more like the potential when
you're looking at how much you slow down
very loosely if you walk out with the
escape velocity is from wherever you're
at
then treat that as your velocity under
special relativity that's more or less
the amount you're slowing down the
Lorentz factor you'll calculate out from
that that's not the best way to do that
for accuracy but it'll always give you a
pretty good approximate answer
there is very little on earth like if
you're the center of the earth there's
no gravity the center of the earth same
for the Sun of the Sun there's no
gravity it's all around you old Gauss's
law forces are cancelling out but you
store that quadratic potential that
you'd have to use to escape from they
are the escape velocity from the
cellular that's very high compared to
the surface of the earth it's still
really tiny though and going to a deep
cavern or up on top of a tall mountain
if you bring the timer clock with you
you will eventually you know get a digit
off but it's very minimal and when we
talk about doing something like slowing
time down to you know on your standstill
for someone for stasis you'd be talking
about a force potential on par with that
of a you know in your black hole a
neutron star to have any real effect and
if you can make two fields like that
that all you know not army directional
basically an electric plate is a wall
only for gravity then you could
theoretically put some in stasis that
way and if you did it correctly they'd
survive the process we have a question
from Matthew Strom Minh what are your
thoughts on von Neumann probe was driven
by digitized planes like the ones
featured in the Bob of or scifi books
there'll be Dennis Lee Taylor's book
series I think I've recommended that
quite a few times um we're going to be
talking about von Neumann I was very
heavily at the end of December it's our
last episode for the year
seating the stalls so I don't want to go
into too much on that today but it is
definitely an option the one mistake
people make with it though as well is
advantageous compared to the generation
chef it's not nearly as much so as we'll
see in that in that episode as people
tend to think so it's it's more like an
option you'd use if you're already
comfortable with that kind of digitized
life not one you views as the only
method of getting to the stalls with a
question from Alton Isaac do you have an
opinion about the standard model and way
all modern physics is going I do not
consider myself to be a good enough
theorist my alien was biophysics anyway
for theory not not cosmology the
standard model is certainly held up
surprisingly well I know a lot of things
like Susy supersymmetry
have had some blows and recent
they're very good models but I'm just
I'm not qualified to really say which
one is right or wrong
nobody really can yeah at this point in
time but there's quite a few people
would have more legitimate opinions on
that than me I say what's proven so far
the standard model holds up very well
especially with the Higgs boson added
and they are we will have to be adjusted
there's no getting around that there's
nothing on there for Dark Matter yet and
we're going to need something for that
there's nothing for the graviton
specifically yet and we're going to need
that when we figure that out battle
Alec's ass if Mao's course if Mao's core
is cord will that allow for a depth of
money not possible on earth and will
that lead to new discoveries you can
always mind deep on smaller planets
there's less gravity less time a
temperature gradient for the most part
and just in general you can it's so much
easier to actually show things up which
is one of the things that keeps us from
drilling much deeper that's another
thing we'll be talking about dissemble
the sonar to sample in January
subterranean cities episode which I just
finished writing and it is a bit of an
issue there all things people tend to
forget about when you drill a deep in
place like that too is that you start
getting pressure problems on earth the
air pressure was gonna go up it could
become it's like a hyperbaric chamber if
you get low enough assuming you're not
doing with all the heat in a place like
Mars that could actually be advantageous
though because instead of trying to tale
form the entire planet to where you can
walk down breathing you can just go into
deep Kato tunnel as well there's enough
a or sitting on top of you two cars
regular pressure and so that might be
one of the force places that we actually
make open air environments there would
be very very deep craters or deep tunnel
shafts that we can fill with AO and
they'll leak but we know we can down the
move on top and that will give us a
decent pressure without having to
actually just do a pressurized dome
effect question from Mulk
what would be the best location for an
earth-based mass driver in whatever
country has the energy to actually run
one arm I keep in the name of that
mountain Chimborazo in Ecuador it's
usually considered one a better look
Haitians because it's not too far from
the coast it does have to launch
overland usually I'd have these things
on the eastern coast that goes of the
sea but you'd be mostly directly over
Brazil was Amazon so a crash is very
unlikely to hit a building that would be
kind of the ideal place if location was
all that mattered because the equator
you get that spin assist for launching
and you also get just a little bit of an
extra altitude bump it's not so much
about you a little bit closer space as
you have less atmosphere to go through
so that's probably the ideal location
but it's minimal enough that you can
pretty much put whatever you want to and
we do have the advantage with these
because there's no huge rocket blast
they take off that we are mass drive or
space or videos things like that open so
not space applies especially of all of
us - but orbital rings things like that
you can put the tether directly into a
city the large port directly into a city
and people can leave directly from there
and that's very advantageous because you
don't spend hours driving you're flying
to the spaceport math skills asked can
you discuss cuckoo bullets black holes
and their application for propulsion we
did actually do a black horse starships
episode way back in I guess I'll be
season 2 we are going to redo that
episode though and probably in early
spring I know Jeremy's been working on
some very nice graphics for that and
with a lot of the auto episodes it's not
just the visual and audio quality is a
little bit bad and again mega-structure
was flat off yesterday was a partial
redo of the old disk Wars episode also
from all these season two they are I
don't like to just do a straight repeat
of an episode but there's always more to
talk about and a la those all the
episodes were very rushed in terms of
trying to compress too much information
into something so I do think black hole
starships which is actually a two-part
episode would be one of the ones we end
up redoing and we'll be looking some
other uses for black holes there besides
just kugelblitz black hole was and that
was the focus there was cuckoo bus black
holes
Josh asks what is your take on how bad
climate change might actually be a
controversial one and how optimistic
pests
mr. Caillou that humanity and Nations
can walk together to one reasonable goal
I'm pragmatic about international
cooperation I don't believe in ever
basing a plan on everybody coming
together and for big friendly hugs
humans are surprisingly reasonable
that's one of the mistakes people make
when trying to look at the you know
national scene is this assumption that
everybody is crazy well for themselves
they are for the most part mostly
worried about their country that's the
job of whatever Ledo is in charge they
are but they are not willing to walk
together to good ends and you can check
that every time there's a you know
crisis with refugees and we all pretty
good about sending supplies to assist
these days and not too many violent Wars
a conquest anymore you know there are
still some unfortunately but they're all
a decent amount of diplomatic sane and
healthy diplomatic process these days as
to climate change itself you would have
to talk to a climatologist about how
severe it could get usually we would say
that the really extreme cases like the
greenhouse venus effect is off the table
there really shouldn't be too much
reason to think that could cause
something as bad as a sterilization of
the planet but we are really new to
weather modeling so it's very difficult
to say how bad or not bad it might get
there could be some positives out of it
there could be a lot of negatives out of
it there's almost always gonna be some
sort of silver lining out of it but
that's one of those things you'd have to
talk to a climatologist I keeps my own
leash on something like that especially
a topic as controversial as that mm
let's see question from Stella me more
how big do you think interstellar ships
would be killed meters crossed I started
not across deep I don't think you'd
typically go but about 500 meters wide
for them unless you were getting much
much bigger you could send an entire or
knew your cylinder but I don't think in
most cases you would a big thing to
remember with a spaceship is once you
arrive you're not done
the trip we always talk about how long
the trip is that's probably in most
cases not going to be the longest
portion of the stay in that ship once
you arrive on that ship you poke that
thing in orbits or poke that about a
good asteroid nearby maybe that you're
still into orbit for our materials and
that's
home for centuries I mean you might set
up domed environments but you're more
like a setup more routine habitats
around that planet while you tail form
it assuming that's even your goal so you
don't want to go too small on something
like that and most of technology that
would make it easier to mmm to live in a
smaller one to make that trip a smaller
one or to access resources on the other
end also that you make big old ships
easier and then again it's something
we're talking about more and seeing the
Star Wars on December 27th we have a
question from Orion agape I know your
foot excuse me
I know you focus mostly on hard science
we do we do actually a lot of sci-fi but
have you considered possible
psychological effects or requirements
for long-term space travel that's
recently have talked about it I'm not a
psychologist so I do tend to focus more
on on the physical end of things it's a
big concern anybody who thinks you can
send people especially in small groups
that would reflect done ball Istanbul a
big oil you know a population of
hundreds or more people
anybody who sends folks you know some
100 number to some location fall from
home and isn't expecting that to cause a
lot of psychological morale issues is
fooling themselves even if you take the
cream of the crop and that's why we we
do put astronauts through such a
horrendous election process it's not
just the scarcity of slots available
anyone who's sent on those missions is
going to have a lifetime psychologically
you are going to by a psychologist or
chaplain onboard poppy is their
secondary job in most cases unless some
bigger crew one thing that a Star Trek
TNG got right was having the counselor
on the ship although it was a little bit
we owe that the council said right next
to the captain but he would have
definitely have someone on board the
ship who acted in that capacity and
we've almost always had that a neat base
that you go far away from home there's
almost always something so being that
more and as to what those would be
I mean we can't know till we start
saying people out they all might get new
types of illnesses like space crazy but
we do have a pretty good idea what some
of the basic ones will be from a lot of
the outposts that we've done over the
years military scientific
go frontier outpost will tell us a lot
about what we need to screen for another
question for mark
if we were to say overcome the numerous
problems with the our Cuvier drive what
would be next I don't think we're ever
going to overcome the our issues for
that Alba Cuvier doesn't think we're
going to overcome those issues would you
have an episode on that it's the warp
drives episode and you know I know
everyone's very fascinated with a drive
it will be asked me what you've the sub
live ocean water but I really don't
think that's going to happen and again
see that observe some of the details on
that but if you do get an FTL system
that obviously I went up a whole new ton
of possibilities that I will familiar
with and sci-fi question from anonymous
are you later Isaac asthma my parents
did actually named me after him and
actually I suppose we all technically
related they would be asked on Z and
it's a relatively small gene pool which
would include Einstein and say can I
guess to but so only very distantly I've
Russian Jewish blood on my one side my
family so and he was a Russian Jewish
immigrant but I'm aimed after him and
Newton so but not my knowledge in any
way related beyond just the similar
ethnic background
David McGraw could you touch briefly on
your silvus with the army what units
were you with you know you were
typically with a lot of different units
during the time you're they oh but you
tend to have one unit that you always
think of as being your unit and for me
that was Bravo to 3fa Field Artillery
stationed out of geese in Germany and
the whole battalion - 3 F a 2nd
battalion 3rd Field Artillery Regiment
attached to the force brigade and the
1st Armored Division though we got
attached quite a few other people - I
think I have patches you you know you
get a patch you can weigh on your
Shortell for each in yourself with each
division I think I've got one for 101
3rd infantry for storm well obviously we
actually have one we're not we didn't
weigh up or we used to tease the Marines
barracks women from 2nd recon they are
the Marines aren't don't wear them on
the shore so they a bit of a difference
there as to what I mean the military is
a
it's a lot like college you have a lot
of different memory is good and bad and
there's not too much I would say under
this context about it maybe some other
time
my force soldier Andrew I was
apprenticed to quite a lot and who
actually is something like thirty
weapons patents on the records soldier
major Dennis J woods did actually write
a book about it the Black Flag journals
and I am mentioned a couple of times
there though he misspelled my last name
and that tells you pretty much
everything my unit did as well you know
during my time with it so it was also a
really horrible movie that was made
about the unit before I joined it called
gunnels palace that we all hate but so
it's a documentary made from when the
unit was in Baghdad before I joined over
there we will up in for my term when
telephone which is up north by Missoula
and then down in Ramadi during the Sorge
and yeah that's about the extent of it
they again see the black flag Jonas we
want more details about that we got a
question from Isaiah what is your
opinion
Elon Musk neuro-link and do you see
yourself getting one if it becomes
publicly available the trick about
neural link is that there's really not
much information yet it's definitely a
thing to be explored but line now else
is beyond the planning board how do you
interface for something with a human's
mind it's not easy when they can
actually start doing that then we can
start you know into you actually have
computers you can't talk about using
smart phones or laptops it's pretty
mature and I think something like no
link is still decades off be nice became
sooner and I would not be amongst the
force people to get one I certainly
wouldn't be amongst the the holdouts
against it but almost every piece of new
communion technology I've always been
one of people who held off for a few
years which might be considered ironic
but like I didn't get a smartphone until
my sister forced me to and Steve stole
my flip phone which I was I found of and
actually get a small phone until she
talked me into it to its I hated
people's and so I do tend to be a bit of
a out on a lot of the comedian's
technology
and it's good to see you know the
cultural bill is up around technology
and get a lot of troubleshooting and I
wouldn't want to be amongst that force
chunk that did that
Jonathan Cooney asks do you think we all
get to vacuum I'm not sure the question
says do you think we'll get vacuum
raccoons or a space elevator forced I I
I don't think the space elevator will be
one of the first things we get but oh
look Oh a vacuum I'll block it blue in
combination I don't really see those
walking out Chabot just cuz there's so
much pressure we were talking about Elon
Musk a moment ago and one of the
objections the Hyperloop is trying to
build something like that where it's a
vacuum with pressure outside some we
know example of that but a little bit
different than Peshwas can or a pipe we
have a lot of pipelines and things like
that that aren't very high pressure for
you know thousands of kilometres trying
to build a loge object that hasn't one
atmosphere difference on the outside is
actually quite tricky and the active
support technique you use for that would
pretty much imply you already could do
something like an orbital ring which is
just easier at that point of question
from Nick ball love the foundation
series can you recommend more sci-fi
series that focus on future political
systems um I think I've recommended
Alastair Reynolds quite a few times
Shido Hamilton's combo song is also good
plan for some of that as to you know
it's funny with the Star Wars movie
Phantom Menace I would always complain
that they hated the Senate scene which
it wasn't very good but the boy in
politics poet and I actually kind of
enjoyed that not as much the lightsaber
doors but I didn't find that to be one
of the flaws in that movie and of course
there was quite a lot of flaws in that
film so that wasn't one of them in my
eyes though probably Peter Hamilton's
cameras are the only when it comes to
mine at the moment though they're all
funny of them to do that problem being
politics is I guess I can still call it
my day job usually a lot more complex
and a lot more boring than most people
tend to think it is many of us
Beks and our thoughts tend to get it
along a lot hymen to be another good one
to look at Starship Troopers I he does
the same thing they were I don't really
agree with a lot of the conclusions he
draws but hi there would be a very good
one for that and then I guess we want to
go on the fall spectrum ina Anne's Atlas
Shrugged or warfare metal Kim Stanley
Robinson's Mars trilogy both fairly
heavy on the politics especially ala
shrugged
alright let me scroll down get our next
question
you know the Flat Earth Society thanks
me for my support I you know I knew
there was going to be an optic on the
flat earths episode of people discussing
the flat or theory but I I was expecting
it to just be a in increased minority
not the vast majority of comments on
there and I shouldn't say I'm a little
disappointed by that but it was not a
episode intended to really discuss that
specifically it was also a poor win one
that people had picked out so now I'm
having hesitation about me doing that
but hoop wards hopefully donut planets
will get some a little bit more on topic
discussion see question from Cain right
did you become scientifically inspired
as child if so what did it that's
actually you know in hindsight because I
didn't actually know who I was named
after until I graduate from college I
was sitting with my mother at her
restaurant at wards and all my friends
were after the bar was drinking I was
still under 21 I can come join them to
drink for those of you on the United
States twenty one's the legal drinking
age and so I was with my mom after wards
and I said well you know I'm did you
think I was going to go for this field
and I just graduated Green physics it
said oh yeah well I mean we named you
after that I said what and she said what
Isaac how about Ethel its Newton
Einstein that was far as I said what had
to I asked my sister about that all
looked laid on my older sister and she
stole laughs II miss her but so I guess
in a way I was always kind of exposed
that in hindsight but I was remembered
as when I was a kid I got Billy into
Greek mythology when I was about five I
was at the library really every last
week mythology book I could get
and I found a book on astronomy it was
in the long place and I dutifully went
and put it back in the right section
over in the astronomy but I glanced
through it while I was doing that and so
many of the names were familial in big
various Greek and Roman gods versus the
various astronomical things I got to
reading them and then very appropriately
there was a camel name in the series but
it was a heavily Illustrated children's
book series by Isaac Asimov I think it's
out of print but it might still be
available and I fell in love with that
right away it was it was great
and that that got me very interested in
astronomy for years to come
question would you volunteer for County
ship no I don't even like to get on
airplanes it's very rare for me to even
leave my my homeo anymore I did all my
traveling and wander yah when I was in
my 20s we got to see many different
continents and me even countries and I'm
very fond of home I don't like to leave
the county me more there's always gonna
be a lot of people who want to go and I
would have much rather slot like that
when to somebody who actually wanted to
to go on long voice Alice well I like my
home question do you play chess not
anymore actually about the same age I
was getting into astronomy in Greek
mythology I used to play chess my
grandfather and uncles and then I had a
neighbor for Wow John Oh Jill who was I
was mostly a chess master I think this
ranked isn't a and I used to hang out of
his house all the time and we play and I
did go to quite a few tournaments back
then I went by one more the youth ones
in Cleveland but I used to get a ham
wood pretty badly but if I play anybody
who was an a-rank or a master I got to
play a grandmaster once and he stomped
all over me of course I don't play it so
much anymore though because I like a
random factor any games I play chess
sometimes I play poker sometimes by 10
for a lot more strategy games Warhammer
40k was always a was very fond of all
Battletech for anyone remembers the old
old faster game just because I like that
mixture of random chaos that you get
from throwing some dice forward but
mixed with stress
and so I temporal games like that
although I'm usually good for any board
game that that I have a chance to play
we often will just find one of us were
played for us and we played one time
read the rules and play there and that's
a lot of fun let's see next question mmm
how much of a coffee geek do you
consider yourself I don't know a huge
confit wrinkle is probably people tend
to think you know I'm not exactly
addicted to this stuff I probably go
through about 3 cups a day maybe 4 I've
had times where I've gone through as a
couple parts a day but it varies a lot
and no I'm not really a big one for like
espresso or Charlie what I drink now but
I got really used ringing Maxwell House
in the surface which is awful caffeine
it was almost always bond and I saw a
very low standards on coffee these days
caffeine is the big one
weakest VanDerveer M you asked would it
ever be worth building a solar system
version of StarLink let me think on that
one a little bit
question from curious discourse hey
although just want to say I love these
livestream sessions that is not a
question a question have you ever
considered restarting your PhD if so
what area do you think you would study
now you know I mean I meant to either
finish up in the army a lot of people in
the military s I enlisted by the way but
you know that's very calm people all you
have to agree to go OCS to go becoming
officer afterwards and a lot of times
there have you finished a masters or
doctorate while you're a junior looter
and you already have some experience and
I kind of assumed that was going to do
that but when I sadly this or this that
was pretty much the end of it I thought
well I figured I was going to go back
and finish the PhD but there was a time
in a place for that in life and I do not
want to post they go back and do that as
for what fiord it wouldn't be biophysics
that's a good portion reason I laughed I
know it wasn't interesting a few anime
respects but it didn't entrace me the
way that we thought was going to be in
the post genome fodder theory of the
early 2000s I do
kind of missed the the environment to
some degree it was always fun having
other people to discuss the topics with
but I've got that again these days just
as well so question did you read
stanislav lam books I have read so Louis
and a couple other ones you know a lot
of when we came into English
translations in the last decade so us of
course a classic and he's done a lot of
other good walks it was a Siberia and
you know I can't move some the other
titles of the moment he's so many good
author I'd recommend a lot of people but
he's not one of my personal favorites
microcosm is so if I mispronounced that
I asked what are your thoughts on free
will I think you once mentioned
compatibilism which doesn't make much
sense to me I think compatibilism
doesn't make a lot of sense to most
people but it does seem to be very
popular went on with you you can't have
to dig into it
compatibilism is the concept that you do
have free will but at the same time you
all heavily influenced by what goes on
around you and it's not someone's that
it's popular in it's the one that most
philosophers subscribe to but it's not
popular in that it sounds good or makes
a lot of sense but more one of fact that
it comes with both bases you're not
really going to accept any scenario that
does not permit free will
there's no point in even discussing an
option where free will doesn't exist if
such as a thought experiment but at the
same time you can't bury your head in
the sand and pretend that your brain
isn't something that we could affect
both by conversation logic as well as
exterior things like hitting you upside
the head with a hammer or maybe you know
using my machine on you to change your
thoughts obviously a more sophisticated
one than we have right now last question
for you go to break I will just take a
quick three-minute break Star Trek or
Star Wars I've never been I've never
seen the difficulty between them I
actually like Stargate better than both
franchise though but I've never been a
track or Wars person to me they're both
good series so I wouldn't got a break
for about three minutes so if you want
to grab a coffee or snack now's a good
time
so while we're taking a quick break so I
can refill my coffee and catch my breath
and you can all go have a drink and a
snack I wanted to mention that part two
of my interview on John Michael
Gauthier's event horizon came out last
night and I'll link part one and two in
the video description
after the show's over today they are
both from the same chat we had a couple
months back but neither of us is noted
for our brevity indeed a lot was trimmed
out and it was still too long for a
single show I also want to congratulate
John I he 100,000 subscribers on his
main channel and also his production
team over at event horizon ale and night
and last Campbell Ross did a great job
on the visuals and of course that was a
factor in the time it took for the
second half to come out I noticed at the
end
John's joined me in being one a few
YouTube channels whose episodes have a
credit roll for anyone who didn't know
episodes here on SF ia tend to be
written a couple months out largely
because of production time tomorrow
we're doing our brainstorm session for
the late January episodes and all the
audio is already written and recorded
through January 17th upcoming
subterranean cities episode our typical
process once we've picked and
brainstormed a topic is for me to sit
down and write a draft then uploaded and
a ton of volunteers go to walk editing
this once that's done I record it and
edit the audio sometimes Eric will help
with that and then we wait for graphics
to be made typically a period of over a
month at the end of that Lucas sends me
the soundtrack and I add it the
narration and the various graphics
together to make the draft video which a
whole bunch of us then review for a O's
and rendering glitches when you list off
everyone involved in that from
brainstorming to captioning and then on
to moderating our various forums and
social media spots it's around a hundred
people a far cry from early days and I
think it shows I've gotten far better on
every aspect of production which has
helped a lot but in the end is that team
that's made the super majority of the
difference and I want to thank that
we'll be right back
[Music]
okay and we're back next question just
pick up from where we left off
Eric asks have you read UVO Hawaii
specifically homo Deus that's familiar I
think if he's an Israeli historian who
talked about Neanderthals and cognitive
the cognitive revolution I've not read
him but I'm loosely very loosely
familiar with his walk basically notion
of human Chronicles can't the idea of
humans moving from Neanderthal phase to
a more modern abstract thinking but
that's much I can say about that since I
read it
Peter Fraser asks what is your realistic
near-term expectations of 3d printing in
space I do not think we will ever send a
manned mission into space beyond the
space station that doesn't have a 3d
printer on it again nothing's going to
you're far away without those it just
allows too much avoidance of redundancy
for things where it's not critical like
you need a hammer on board and I'm you
need it right now you need it but a lot
of times you don't really need the
backup ham or if you can put one off and
there's just too many things but that's
gonna come in handy as the technology
improves and in fact that's a big chunk
of a Santa Claus machine episode people
when asking what the Santa Claus machine
is about we'll be looking at a lot of
that kind of technologies they own some
of the limitations on them it's moving
on to your next question Robin L asks
would you say that machine learning is a
step in the right direction towards
general-purpose AI or do you think that
as ever comes it will be in the form of
entirely different technology I
mm-hmm we say there's basically three
ways to make an AI that's roughly human
level you can copy a human mind and then
tweak it a little bit you can build one
from scratch programming all the way to
the top or you can get something that
self loading I would usually see the
second option building from scratch the
hardest and the self learning is the
most dangerous
it's probably the pathway me most want
to pursue it's likely give you an AI
that's something we could tailor to some
degree for you so application the
easiest but it's not the only
way to get there and it may be too
dangerous for some options we're gonna
have to see that's the biggest thing
with AI is it could be very useful to us
very dangerous and we've known that for
generations now since the first started
coming up and right before the 20 she
could go back to a Mary Shelley olio but
in the 24 started talking this was all a
big concern but now a century later we
all get the point where yourself having
genuinely serious conversations about
that I think we'll see more and more
those the next decade and that will tell
us where things are going to move out on
that because I know a lot of people like
think it was inevitable but nothing is
inevitable when it comes to something
that we voluntarily choose to do and
this very dangerous technology but also
very useful and we need to know more
so either more and more forests we're
not at the point yet where we should be
ban here to embrace you wholeheartedly
but we're going to probably be in the
next couple decades and we'll need to be
thinking about it very seriously Dragon
King asks will we see a rockets
interplanetary transport system in the
next 50 years now I hate to sound like a
pessimist on this but I think that I
would consider it a little bit too soon
to be saying that we'd be doing a sort
of major transport in the next 50 years
between planets and if we are it's more
likely be with the asteroid belt that's
the only place we're gonna give away
we'd be trucking lots of material back
home from and have you ever considered
trying to do a collaboration with neil
degrasse tyson i actually am very fond
of him I've his walk and he is actually
part of the same network I'm part of a
standard which was something that CCB
gray and in a nutshell course was acted
startup of had chance to meet some
really fun folks they are and I think a
vacation with a bunch of them in January
I certainly wouldn't mind you know
meeting him to say the least I've never
actually spoken with him though so yeah
I'm definitely part of a collaboration
question would you would you live have a
vacation home on ownio cylinder while
lineart
[Music]
I would if there was an only or so under
all but I would have to visit them and
I'm a little bit too connected to a neo
cylinder wasn't discussion for me not to
want to go step on one so there I
probably are the only way to actually
get me poor Slee into space like I said
I don't like to fly and I don't like to
leave the area but I would go visit
Antonio so don't be sure question from
Eden our current we always imagined
starships to be metal why not plastic
also how would we keep out of space
clean of little would it be an issue at
all concerning vastness oh yeah little
is an issue and mostly in orbits but
whenever you're moving fast anything
that you're going to be moving fast and
the local area could trash or ship as to
why we always picture them as metal I
mean I guess that's probably just
something built into us from washing
science-fiction there tends to be an
assumption of metal ships like you know
sailing ships all and they probably
would have a lot of cases where they
were you know plastic or ceramic I would
tend to think ceramic more than plastic
but you probably have mini layered holes
inside those two I do not know that I
will assume that all ships wouldn't be
made out of graphene we tend to think
graph you know these days but that has
its ups and it's downs too it's a very
impressive material that's not super
material that's gonna replace everything
else so but I suspect that we'll see
quite a mixture of you know cameo of
various materials being used to install
ship hull building and it won't be
limited just to metals question from the
real blast since your channel you guys
have such interesting usernames you use
since your channel has grown up quite a
lot did you have people recognizing you
around and and ask you for selfies or
stuff like that if not how would you
react that I did actually have one
example someone had come knocking on my
on my door which I you know they were
circulating a petition for a local issue
and I was telling them at the time I
couldn't sign the petition because I'm
the you know any petition I sign I as
only other light to sign one like anyone
else but I can't validate that the Board
of Elections if I've signed it and as a
result of that I did we do not sign
petitions but the next day something
else would come out and we got in
chatting
walking through some of the steps on how
to go about making sure that because
people get lost and how do petitions
properly and I think a lot of times they
circulate one psychologist into
projecting like 70% of the petitions
offered for monotype I was legally you
have to but I walked him through some of
the steps next day same petition goes by
it's different person though and I
started talking with him and he turned
out he knew who I was and I was
wondering why somebody from the same
drive at stop by twice and he just
wanted to meet me and that was actually
quite a lot of fun to talk to somebody
but and please don't show up on my porch
knocking though but that's about they
stab and I have quite a few friends in
the area obviously who know about the
channel and say hi I like to watch it
but know no one's really you know
competent mechanize me of course I'm not
on screen much so I don't think most
people would recognize me as I was
walking by anyway which actually I have
to midnight before we find that question
real quick
coño thank you he says great Channel
highly enlightening mark Suman asks
would you ever consider doing a collab
with Michio Kaku the same answer on that
I have I like him I know for some reason
not folks like Bill and I on your glass
Tyson okq all controversial same from
mosque I'm not sure why but you know any
time so he talks a lot about issues and
is doing it live and a lot so they
eventually got to say something that is
gonna bother somebody I think it did it
rolls downhill
it's one of ways that I do my shows be
honest but yeah if he was available and
interested I'd only be very glad to meet
him and do some kind of collaboration
but again he's not a guy I've never met
question from gorgonopsids you think
some interstellar ships assuming no FTL
technology wind up as long-term social
experiments such as the vaults and
fallout I have never played the video
game Fallout or any of its sequels you
would anytime you have data you're going
to use that data you know if you're
studying a plague or an epidemic that's
happened you don't say oh well this
plague is going on we'll be whole but to
use this data you use the data there's a
difference between that and actually
conducting expand like
affecting people with a bit play like
Ishii did in Japan in the win World War
two and I could very easily see us doing
a lot of studies on colony ship so
colony is I'd be negligent not to but I
don't think we would build one for that
I don't think we would certainly some
other civilization human or otherwise
might do that at some point but I can't
see us doing it
apex Tyrannis asks what was your MOS in
the army I said - I was a thirteen
Bovril initially though I almost never
actually man - how it's or thirteen
Bravo is a field gonna be artillery I'll
tell him in Nagano and then later on I
request but I was mostly a knight to
Yankee a lot of times by night two alpha
was the final analyst i had they sent me
to Mississippi in the middle of summer
for we trained on there and then the
Montana on the middle disassembled for
that and then they asked me if I wanted
to be in list and getting promoted
nights with them now so not not the only
reason I love the army but that was
pretty much the end of my interest at
that point time but 92 series logistic
thirteen series is feared or chilly 11
is infantry for instance every one of
them has a area next question I'm
comment nano freak-ass I am developing
science fiction I am a developing
science fiction writer your videos have
been invaluable to me and building up a
knowledge base of scientifically solid
concepts thank you for your inspiration
and walk thank you
question from our cast alpha would it be
worth it to you being sent with a
one-way ticket to satisfy your curiosity
well alien life exists and what it is
like I would rather send somebody who
was an export and actually want to go
I'm more than happy to give Alma trio
advice from back home on OAuth
I mean again I grew up watching space
off a Star Trek doctor all that stuff so
it's certainly fascinating but so was
climbing a mountain I had a particulars
out to do that I'm gone hiking years
even I've gotten very boring in the last
decade since I have the service and I am
very glad to be a very boring life and
would like to stay that way
titanium town asked do you think that
the earth will ever unify as one body
against other planets like in TV shows
or that will ever ever unified solar
system against I don't have it in solar
systems for ever was a long time nations
unify into big or nations typically from
an external threat not I say a violent
threat but you know it could be as
somebody as simple as trade wars and
advantageous in terms advantageous
positioning in terms of diplomacy and
you could end up with like a unified or
for that reason but the last planet I
would expect to actually have a unified
government who would beat the off I
would not be surprised if you had like
giant you know you know planetary
empires of trillions of people you know
with various colony stations here and
they are throughout the solar system or
even other solar systems who still had a
chunk of ore that was they are you know
where the capital was at that was small
he had bought was with you know you
could have the the motor empire that had
its capital on motor and controller half
of malls or something like that so I do
not think that that's something that
would ever tend to happen I don't expect
us to have any external threats to us
that require that any time in in the
near future 10 20 thousand years down
the road if they all lots or the
interstellar empires everything's
settled nearby us I could see a unified
or if they or something inside a call to
have to civilization he or maybe but I
the more peaceful and diplomatic
civilizations gets the less likely I
think they all tend to unify into larger
conglomerations because there's less
impotence to do so and there's generally
a motivation amount stay as local as
possible though that's just my opinion
titanium town do you think that the
earth will ever
oh sorry just read that one further ed
asks what do you think should be done
about all the space debris see the
Upward Bound overall infrastructure
episode probably lays ograms be a good
one in the short term mostly just trying
to make sure we don't do it a lot of
places companies nations all
kind of lazy about what they do with
their dead satellites in terms of
pushing them in the graveyard orbits
best to push them down at the atmosphere
when possible so they bone up down the
road I think a lace or broom approach
would be the more likely approach and
again we discussed that in older
infrastructure or the other she'll
question from PS ever considered
devoting some vids to sci-fi ten to
twenty years out and tactical strategic
implications of things like cheap to
warm warm drone swarms losing my voice
changing court landscape I'm going to do
the attack of the drones about two
months back um I lose track of these
things because I write them like two
months Philippe Emile side we just did
flat AllShare stay but my brains busy
thinking about the late Jets well I
would like to do some more those people
sometimes say we should do stuff closer
to home but then when I do a video
that's like only 10 or 20 years in
advance and once a III hate when you do
these near-term videos go do one the
fall future instead so I try to mix it
up a bit but to be honest like you can
kind of board talked about warfare
because it's very hard to do so and
there's so many armchair quarterbacks
and things like that war is very
unpredictable strategically if you think
of a chaotic mess that people people win
who basically don't so much know what
the situation is as a less ignorant or
incorrect about it than the opposition
it's a guessing game where strategy
changes constantly from really small
things and I really feel like I'm
reading teal I used when I discussed
even 10 or 20 years from now that's why
we limit ourselves to just but you know
science tells us definitely is always
not on the table as opposed to what
methods would be preferable invisible
what technology are most looking forward
to longevity I noticed as I tell people
I'm 26 and of course I remember the 80s
very well for 26-yard but I had shaved
my beard off for most of the beginning
of the year and I grew it back for a
costume I was waiting for a medieval
Medieval Renaissance Faire up in New
York and when I got back from that I was
decide whether I was gonna keep the
beard or not and I looked in the mirror
I said I had some gray hair on it
and I immediately shaved it off I've
grown back since but yeah there was a
technology I'm particular forward to it
definitely would be life extension
soldier the orc ass love the channel who
would your favorite commander of the SGC
Hammond ownio doctor we are or Landry um
Hammond is always to me the post I think
it wasn't charged for that and of course
I really did like Richard announced and
sticking around for Season eight as the
commando it gave I can't think one name
right now corn or coral I cannot
remember the actress's name well it was
nice see her playing that although as
the command or the actual team I did
like Landry I did not like dr. Weil when
she was a different actress they changed
the actress I'd actually did not like
her character too much in Atlantis I did
like her on Stargate sg-1 nothing as the
actress did a great job
I just feel the vitals didn't do a good
job buddy go into a leadership role with
military half so Shepherd um major
Sheppard I confusing with Mass Effect
they had a really good cast for Atlantis
and I actually enjoyed Atlantis quite a
lot but the first couple seasons didn't
have the best variety of characters in
some cases they went kind of heavy on
some of the stereotypes and didn't
really have a chance to explore the
characters too much but as we get into
for those seasons it was quite a lot of
fun and I really like dr. Beckett and I
missed they killed his care draft in
season three though they kind of brought
him back but they didn't place he was
Jewish slate from Firefly and I thought
she did a great job that well to was
certainly good to see you again since I
am a file Firefly I'm not quite as
fanatical about some people but I always
regret that show got canceled when it
did today it's the question though
general Hammond was my favorite
commander of the SGC question from
Kincaid do you think that DD apps like
Tindall will have negative effects on
our species of a longtime fames given
what they slept for I have never done
online dating I think I try actually I'd
to try out one time with a friend push
me towards it I know tinder was mad that
you can use to look at people and see
who in your air you want to date and
then I'm sure that
they was going to continue to be an
electronic service towards it but I'm
just oh not to remember when dating
online is a very strange and weird thing
and it's still I I can really speak to
is I just don't know much about it it's
still new to me
even though it's like 20 years old so
for futurists are not that good about
giving the new technology right away
question from antifusion any thoughts on
the moon direct proposal by dr. Zubin
anything you would like to see added or
issues you would address as someone just
talking to you leo stay about more than
Moore's profile but are using power
satellites for that I think I've
mentioned four I'm a very big fan of dr.
zubrin's and I've actually ever met him
though the strangely enough we were
Facebook friends but I don't think we
worked hard he is very detailed and
Thomas of when he puts these plans
together I would consider him part be
just the export I'm putting together all
these kind of space missions from a
futurism angle and I have not really dug
into it probably should agree I should
just cuz it to me it seems like it's one
of those things where when it's ready to
go when we know more about it we'll get
more details but until then just the
basic framework seemed fine to me
I didn't see anything that I'd want to
add or subtract from that per se Nikola
asks what you think will happen forced
will we digitize our minds or be able to
build on your cylinders technically we
call they build on your cylinder I mean
again that's it's just a cost issue
cheap space travel or digital
intelligence I'd probably go with a no
neo so no for us though a more modest
one just cuz there's not really much
need for a full-blown only you're so
annoyed and again I don't think digitize
the intelligence one of those things
it's gonna take a really long time for
us to get into I think there's something
for the 24th century but I think there's
gonna be a lot of resistance to actually
doing it with humans even volunteer
humans early on leo Furman asks what is
the process for selecting questions to
be answered Tory the hot stream actually
Rob ibly not a bad one there are four or
five people who are
discord administrators and motivators
right now who are looking at the the
YouTube livestream I'm actually not even
it's over on the other model I'm looking
at a picture of myself on OBS which is
the live streaming software I use and
overheal just the right on the screen I
have a discord chat window open and they
all put in questions into it from there
I do not know what criteria they
actually used to select for them other
than I say please pick the ones that are
mostly legible and stay away from topics
they know I'm not going to answer
so first I'm not guy tell me what my
political affiliation or religious
affiliations all that's to me always
something separate from the channel um
let's see nabilla asks have you ever
played elite dangerous and though many
people I know of a thought of that game
but I have not john grello I lost no
plates to lawless people ask that a lot
- John grello asks question I've always
imagined that artificial intelligence
would suffer the same issues organic
intelligence with cell phones such as
disorders that humans suffer from
probably I I mean they depending on how
different it is a lot of the mental
disorders we have all very keyed in to
all my I hate to use terms like lizard
brain or primate brain but we're these
layers of architecture that the brain is
developed over you know millions of
years of evolution and those all
basically what are responsible all
particular versions of that so I don't
know that an AI would have a sense of
humor for instance or have a sense of
fun I suspected have somebody and now
they're just to it and they might
actually have the exact same thing if we
will built them up like us but the same
is going to apply for a lot of a lot of
- lost my train of thought with a you
would expect there to be potential
psychological issues and I was think of
was it Susan Calvin from the old Isaac
Asimov robot series was the Robo
psychologist for us robots and one of my
favorite science fiction character was
Susan Calvin if you never read the
asthma robot novels I strongly recommend
them both the ones that are set in the
us robots phase with Susan Calvin and
the Elijah Bailey novels have followed
up
but yeah I think they were definitely
mental disorders that could develop but
whether or not they parallel what we
have not would be very if he me asked oh
I asked what's your favorite dessert
cake or comfort food probably something
with chocolate or strawberry I do not
actually eat a lot of sweets or snacks
or sodas so things like that but I am
fond of chocolate in Brazil asks would
you place a biological body for buttock
one if it would extend your life
I don't consider those two I mean that's
a false dichotomy to me you could
potentially clone a body that was highly
evil about a sized you could potentially
have a cybernetic body that was mostly
biological you could have a robot that's
built mostly out of biological material
or ceramics instead of metal I would not
have any problem replacing bits and
pieces of myself if there was something
wrong with the with the actual body part
itself
depends what the option is then same you
know how many people turn down a
pacemaker or a cochlear implant or you
know I'm wearing glasses so I'm already
a cyborg so to me that's just it's gonna
vary by person I'd never forced anybody
to take on a prosthetic tooth for
instance but teeth fillings are pretty
normal and I expect that seems read
objections to things like artificial
hearts when they first came out I
suspect that any given generation
technology gets a you know invented as a
prosthetic within a generation or two
then they'll be passe the nobody even
talks about it except for people who
have very strong convictions on the
metal question from Eric how do you
think the Outer Space Treaty of 1967
will affect the future of space and
should it be repealed not repealed but
replaced at some point in time it's a
basic walking Treaty when they put
together they were not trying to make
something that was gonna last forever
and cover all bases they are addressing
matters that were of concern right then
and
so if they knew what's gonna need to be
updating left mechanisms in place for
updating it and we will need to do so
and we'll need to do so many times you
know there's going to be come a time
when space gets militarized just because
most people will live in space one day I
should assume at that point in time
that's probably end up happening we are
almost done we're going to take a couple
more questions and then close out for
the day kiri Miller asks what
hypothetical sport would you like to
participate in the future as a
superhuman also should people donate to
sends research to make it happen I'd
certainly encourage folks to get
involved with sins I never direct people
to donate to one thing another than the
channel I'll be see ya please donate to
SFI a but they certainly have been
always very responsible with donations
they've been given and I would certainly
encourage people to look into them or
war but when it comes to picking a
foundation to support that's a postal
position people have to make themselves
as to what sport well I mean I was I
played soccer as a kid Oh football for
everybody outside the US um I always
hate making that difference it's a
Soccer League football is very wide
range of sports of which soccer is one
of the times it's a soccer association
that mid/side tangents but Saco is game
I'm still fond of I don't actually watch
too much but I played growing up and
that would be the one I wouldn't mind
playing again I suppose I nothing's
always stopped me from doing it now and
it's not popular in my area whiteweasel
gaming asks what kinds of viewers does
your channel mainly attract posting I
find your channel has very useful
reference for science fiction
world-building there were actually a lot
of Arthur's involved with the channel or
so many of them all put in your spy
novels new Arthur's independent
authority number of bigger names they'll
published here I occasionally get emails
from and that's kind of fun but you know
it's I don't know what Canadians does
does get attracted to this channel I'd
like to think it's a very small to
civilized and so poor group of people
and that's mostly been true we have a
fair share of trolls and things like
that at times but without many other
channels by name I've noticed the
comments on a lot of other science
channels tend to be much more abrasive
and
and uh you'll respect for disrespectful
then then we tend to get here and I'm
very grateful for that because I mean
that that always a supply definitely
don't wish anything bad towards them
it's just we have a very good audience
and they've always been a very you have
always been just a lot of fun to talk to
I think I'm probably not the only person
who always had a lot of ideas as a kid
or as a young adult they want to talk to
you with people about and they never
really got the chance to do so and there
just weren't that many people maybe at
one French we talked to you about that
and one of the cool things about this
channel is that I know how thousands of
people I can talk to you about any this
topic and yeah it's just it's very neat
so it's that's the kind of audience we
have I guess I guess we'll take one more
question but that would have been a good
one to end on how drastically do you
think society will change when
self-replicating machines are invented
that's a good question in - with -
because there's the topic for dissemble
episode the Santa Claus machine and of
course seeing the stars after that we're
gonna look a lot at what self of cane
technology is going to do what its
limitations are what its strengths all
and a lot of the misconceptions that
tend to evolve around these things again
with a lot of technologies they have
potential and people sometimes treat
them a little bit too much like a magic
wand and we're gonna see some of the
uses for that this upcoming December and
the schedule should have been coming up
the entire month as we do it goes right
now on the screen that will be on
December 20th for the Santa Claus
machine there's also a large chunk of
the topic for seeing the style it's kind
of a two-parter they are so I'm slowly
it's gonna be a fun month I think a lot
of folks are looking forward to kick
starting space industry that was a fun
episode do too so we will be moving into
the winter phase we got the whole list
of episode it's coming up and we do have
a bit of an exception this month for
book of the month we are actually going
to do Terry Pratchett's Discworld novel
hogfather if you haven't actually read
that book already that Terry Pratchett
ones they're just they're wonderful so
if you like douglas adams you're like a
patch and if you haven't read douglas
adams then go read and i won't even say
if you didn't like douglas i have never
heard you may say that so and on that
note i think we'll get close you out
thank you everybody for joining me we
probably won't do one of these photos
symbol just could be right by New Year's
but we might and if not we'll be back in
January and until then I will see you
all until this day and thanks for
joining us and have a great week
