good afternoon everyone and welcome to
the SFI a monthly livestream Q&A will
get sowed in just a moment but go ahead
and stop getting your questions in the
chat window so our moderators can start
relaying those to me as soon as we start
please try to keep the questions concise
and watch your spelling and try to be
polite to others in the chat we usually
go for about an hour so you probably
want to grab a drink and a snack though
we'll take a break about halfway through
- with all that said welcome and let's
get stoned
good afternoon everybody and welcome to
the show we are in a new studio setup so
while you're getting your questions in
just a heads up my wife will be reading
me the questions today but we didn't
have time to get a mic set up for so you
might not be able to hear them so I'll
just repeat the question as we go today
and we'll get one set up for next time
so go ahead and eat your questions in
now and we start going through those who
pecan in the meantime as you know we did
have the live stream no live stream last
month as I was getting married at the
time and I wasn't planning to have one
this time either but because the virus
the conference in Dallas for the
international space development
conference did get cancelled so I
couldn't attend so we all having a live
stream this weekend we are in a new
studio and as was all that it's not
completely set up so bear with me today
is we have any technical issues I have a
just how I get them solved we now we do
this again in June as two questions read
them coming up let me see if we got any
in yet didn't Copely we'll actually up
we've gained two technical difficulties
all right I believe it should actually
be streaming right now we actually not
streaming we might not be streaming bear
with me just one moment please
humanities
I don't think we'll actually streaming
yet if we all live technical
difficulties please standby okay we all
allegedly streaming why are we not
actually on the good news is we're not
actually streaming no one can see me
doing this the moment
I'm not getting the chat on there
okay we're gonna back out and start back
over again
good afternoon everyone and welcome to
the SFI a monthly livestream Q&A will
get sold in just a moment but go ahead
and start getting your questions in the
chat window so I'll mana Rios can start
relaying those to me as soon as we
stopped please try to keep the questions
concise and watch your spelling and try
to be polite to others in the chat we
usually go for about an hour so you
probably want to grab a drink and a
snack though we'll take a break about
halfway through to with all that said
welcome and let's get started okay
hopefully this worked this time for
those of you who tuned in right as we
got started with a little of a technical
glitch getting started and it kind of
messed up our ability to go so we
wouldn't pour back out of that I gather
we did go live form in or two for those
of you who are catching this after the
fact it was a short mess up there so
we're gonna get started in just a moment
here for those of you who did not know
we skipped the live stream last month
and this is our fourth month back a new
studio and a bit of a rush set up
because I wasn't originally planned to
do a live stream and may expire to be
the international space development
conference down in Dallas but that got
cancelled because of the virus so as we
go through today we're going to have my
wife Sarah reading the questions off to
me as we go and we'll have me repeating
them back just in case we don't have
they're good enough mics set up because
again we're just going to start with the
studio I should probably also mention as
we get going that we did hit 500,000
subscribers this month and I just want
to thank all of you for joining for that
we'll talk about that little bit later
for the show break but it was pretty
neat to do and there's a fun balloon up
celebrating the key agent that my wife
got me so we're going to get start with
questions I assume we all actually live
now the first one is from Albert Jackson
entertainment do you expect to occur in
the near future besides the art I didn't
catch the launch live yesterday I caught
clips of it afterwards but that really
it was a great occasion to actually see
the astronauts came back up again and
it's nice see SpaceX if I've ever
mentioned SpaceX when it first got
started I was kind of pessimist about
their chance son because we've had so
many plans for having private comm
whilst in space but very few of them
have actually walked out and I'm very
glad to say a decade later that I'm
happy to eat my hat on that one and just
congratulations to them for getting that
rockin up there so another good success
they've had plenty
now that setbacks but a lot more
successes than we could have really
hoped for decade ago the question is
what advances in entertainment you
expect to come up with your future
besides video and for entertainment
that's always a tricky one because it
kind of depends on which which pathway
civilization choose to go if you got
very good virtual reality obviously that
gives you all sorts of options for
entertainment but for the not more so
kind
I'd say much more interactive stuff you
know in terms of like video games more
you're not going to get shown this this
goes into education too you wouldn't get
your education by watching a documentary
or watching TV show you're watching a
period drama you probably get one in the
virtual reality sense by interacting
with it and that does not have to be in
VR it could be more of a video game set
up I say a lot of what I know of
European history comes from various
video games like paradox Interactive's
Europa you know Valles but in terms of
other entertainment I you know we're
going to keep seeing more sports more
games more things like that and
hopefully those won't all be in most of
in virtual reality or social media but
try to pick the video game trends trying
to pick that retainment trend this is
always a missed bag at the very best
it's if you gather there actually are a
couple of substances that kind of sort
of can but as will no liquids in a
vacuum you have a solid and you have a
gas States and there's a reason for that
when you think about what's actually
going on in the phases you have a
crystalline lattice
in law for a solid that's where
everything is being held together by the
molecular interactions the forces they
are but wherever you have heats you have
the things matching around and bumping
into each other and those are relatively
weak bonds depending on the substance
how strong those all and how much heat
affects them so as those bonds start
vibrating more and more you're it's hard
for them to hold together now in a
vacuum they just fall apart into a gas
but when you have pressure around them
things pushing from the other side
randomly chittering around the hidden
units that kind of keeps them bound
together a little bit and even though
they want to fall apart and it's still a
little bit of molecular force going on
there and that's what we call the liquid
phase before practical purposes you
can't have one in a vacuum so as a loose
rule pretty pretty strong well actually
you can't have liquids in a vacuum
so this funny one who does not know the
question is do I have any thoughts on
neon genesis evangelion
um this is a Japanese anime they also
did some movies of that I was actually
like familiar with a couple years ago um
from watching SF debris it's a review
show I'm very fond of you should check
out sometime
Chuck Sun invokes channel but he did a
cover on those again we actually washed
them and they are it is a strange show
and it's got some interesting things I
think I actually did reference it in one
of the videos about you know have cities
that you can retract into the ground in
case of a war so it like a lot of
Japanese anime or with Mecca in it it's
realism is dubious but it is an
interesting show with a very strange
ending but I think it's rather legendary
for a very strange ending so that's
about my only thoughts on it the same
way you finance a raivo track when it
comes to financing something like a mega
structure like the open or ring it's all
about throughput is there enough you
know justification for it down there now
doesn't actually have to break-even will
make a profit when you first put in
place that's ideal obviously but
something like the railroad tracks we're
going from east to west you know there
was a long-term investor on that
possibly government subsidy is possibly
just people going to bond out you know
very good investments for a long term
but you don't build one of those until
you need one of those same as if I want
to go to Oregon in 1800 I walk I take a
trail I don't build a railroad and
eventually you get to a point where
there's enough traffic going they are
that it justifies actually building
something like an overall ring and you
and over the ring could be a very time
thing until we actually build some we
don't know what the minimum width would
be practically but from a theoretical
standpoint they could be you know a
millimeter thick right but the ones we
tend to look at on the show which can be
anywhere from base train track size up
to the size of a small nation that is
one of those things that's incremental
II built as you need it fundamentally
it's not that they're hard to build it's
just that they are expensive to build
and maintain total putting them up there
and you're not gonna want to do that
until the amount of throughput you're
getting is going to justify the savings
and launch costs going into that so it's
for those things where we don't really
need to finance it into any special
means we just have to wait until there's
a justification to stop prototyping and
testing it and obviously like many
projects like that there might be a time
we're looking at your some government
subsidy towards that and that might be a
good thing to be looking at but it would
be an interesting case because think
about an overall ring is that it's gonna
go over several countries which gives
you kind of a provided way issue same as
behalf of transcontinental railroads or
things like that so your funding is
likely to come through a fairly
complicated treaty
whether it's privately funded or in the
Hot Chilli the same we'd have in a lot
of places right now there is almost of
all contents in English and almost all
science contents English especially when
it comes to space stuff because you get
it mostly from NASA or the ESA and I
think in general with those almost every
topic is free to cover again because
nobody's even covered in that language
so if you're looking to be doing videos
like the ones we'd cover here you know
all the topics I cover on the show even
most of them are not mine originally as
concepts and the ones that all mine
they're free to cover again
you know give them a look introducing
the people tell them where they can find
other information try to talk to other
channels about using their content with
their permission obviously to translate
in that language on hand and then try
you know adjusting to your audience
every culture has got different
interests in focus and for their big
speaking Ward you know obviously with a
place like Abu Dhabi friend Hassan Abu
Dhabi Dubai hi you have a great great
interest in science and technology so
you know see what what the future has in
store for them and what kind of big
projects they'd have an interest I'd
imagine maybe megastructures will go for
well they are for instance so adjust
your content to your audience see what
it is they're focused on but of course
at the end of the day adjust your
content to what's interesting and so
keep those signs tops mind you know
don't don't try to play to too much of a
regional or national bias and these
things keep a focus on you know good
scientific endeavor and a good future
[Music]
there's actually a doubly interesting
question the question is have I ever
been to Germany and if not am I going to
be there someday and will we have a fan
meet I have been Joe Murray I lived
there for about three years and
amusingly rightful we had a live stream
I had a guest over who she's a u.s.
she's immigrated the United States in
the 1960s from Germany so we were
talking about Giessen which is my
adopted hometown while I was stationed
in Germany geese and folks who didn't
know is a little bit north of Frank
fought in the Hess and puffins I was
stationed there obviously the United
States Army and that would been from
2003 through 2007 - about 14 months to
deploy to Iraq beautiful area I love
Germany and I can bail you map a single
ward of German anymore because if you
say when it comes to languages if you
don't use it you're going to lose it and
I probably remember how to say my name
you know hello I am but as the vision
again you know you can live in a place
for three years and we do
a lot of sightseeing I've got spent a
lot of time on train on weekends going
new places you don't exhaust entire
country in terms of visiting places even
once and so I would love to go over
there and visit again if we did
something I'd probably do something for
the family for the channel but I don't
do those very optimization worries I was
hoping to do the Dallas confidence is I
know I had a lot of fans they would be
at that and I want to actually have a
chance to actually get to meet him talk
to some of them I think the only time
I'm actually sort of live meet-and-greet
was when I was down in Pittsburgh at the
Carnegie Science Center giving a talk
last summer and when after was the fear
of the fans go have dinner and that was
actually a very nice occasion to do so
don't do to me fan meets but if we ever
had one in Germany I'd be very glad to
have one and join me obviously one of
the most contested resources in the
solar system what spot's would be the
ones people actually funny over that
depends so much on what the markets the
many of the time if for instance it's
the early days where we expect asteroid
money be focused principally on um you
know gold platinum and those kind of
rare earth metal or whale metals in a
case like that we someone finds an
asteroid that's got gold on it that
becomes contested especially because
asteroids generally are part of families
and we don't know for sure without doing
a lot more geology of them so to speak
but they're probably likely to have
similar resources in those families of
asteroids tend to float together so you
might have a state claim on one asteroid
and then people have good reason think
the asteroids cluster near it kind of
all being with it would have similar
resources in them so you might have
quite a furor over who got claim on
those but for later on you know the
surface of any planet or major moon
would be you know like any other land
something of value
question I'm sorry the second part of
the question was is the moon that keeper
alters oh okay
again sorry we're gonna use the new set
up here um hmm you don't absolutely have
to use the moon as a jumping point to
space you need to use it as your most
advantageous one or Lian as source of
materials for building stuff in orbit
and vomit ears fly the early expansion
but um Soyuz is not too contested in the
early days so they even get some
resource off to get started once you've
got good resource development from
things like the asteroid bounce in other
places you probably would be probably
would need to actually have too much of
fight for the moon though we did do that
episode battle for the moon which talks
about that a little bit more so before
you over to that thank you by the way
that was one of our chats um in the
question of artificial intelligences
assistance it depends on how much
intelligence you actually need and if
you look like the early days of
science-fiction with robots they almost
always assume need to be human level
intelligence to be of much use and you
know they'd have that for everything
from this like a spell check to just mop
your floor I've a robot vacuum it likes
to get stuck into my couch ah it's a
great thing it does not have much
intelligence it really does not need
much more maybe you would need to have a
little bit higher intelligence to avoid
being stuck under my couch but doesn't
you be a smallest person my spell check
on my computer does not need to be a
smaller supportin for a lot of the
assistants we need you know so much
what's automated these days you don't
need human level intelligence to provide
what you speak human level Java means
things like a factory you know just
going this this over and over again you
get a robot that does that doesn't he be
very smart if you have applications that
require genuine level human intelligence
so close to it and where you feel like
the AI is showing a personality
you know that is a person in that case
that obviously does raise that
enslavement issue and there you got
basically two ways you can approach that
you can say I don't care and what do you
as we told to or you can program to like
its job or I say program with the
preference towards that job is probably
smart or kind or more ethical out but
don't make it actually do that job you
make a space probe and you give it the
basic preference to like the new space
travel but then you put it through
school and educate it and ask it would
you like to be a space boat it was good
chance going say yes I would like to be
aspects about and if it says no I've
always wanted to creatively write you
say well okay you go do that and maybe
it's published Natha or maybe it sits in
despair because nobody wants to read its
books you know that's same as were you
with anybody else in life we can give
people a certain preference growing up
but you know if there's no free but on
the decision you know you're given the
preference same as you would raising any
kid if they don't have that free ball
decision even both the practical and
literal sense then that is enslavement
and then you just have decide is the
person can it be enslaved and you know
then that's that same ethical issue
without all the time I don't think it's
an ethical wise choice between anything
that was forced to do his job against as
well and I don't think you really want
to tie it's well into doing something no
matter what so always a tricky question
something at that but again
philosophically speaking we're gonna
have to wait till we actually see some
real examples know maybe our best
behavior stuff like that because it's
really easy to fall into a trap on
something like slavery so hopefully we
all find an alternative to that but
obviously it's a big feature a lot of
robot books in sci-fi especially asthma
stories if you ever met as most robots
toys read them
Lucas fortescu says if you were on the
first colony of 100 people to Mars and
could take on any professional role what
would you like to be and why oh my my
preferred role would be at Houston I to
be honest when it comes to would you
like to go to Mars would you like to
travel them almost be a colonist
tomorrow's on the moon or anything else
I like my house I like where I live it's
hard even get me on an airplane that's
one reason why we don't do 10 do you go
to a lot of the conventions and things
like that is travel can be fun but you
know home is where the heart is and my
home is he or not Mo's I'd love to see
folks go off and colonize that I'd love
to be involved with that
but if I had to go over some reason I
think I feel my natural role as a person
who suggests that you tell us people
what they pop you out to do and
presumably most cases gets ignored so I
would leave colonizing Mo's to folks who
and I don't think we can have a shortage
of people who want to go so those who
want to go there was not gonna be a
shortage come up less I'm gonna have fun
and go they moan salt reactors have the
big advantage well they're much safer as
whether or not we be using them before
fusion it's depends on whether or not we
have or develop practical fusion we have
a lot say for nuclear power that we use
to and that's always an important point
when it comes to things like fission not
that we don't want to continue to
explore the other alternative
technologies so long if we can make it
cheap and reliable with good batteries
always going to be your best one it will
probably even be our fusion because it's
probably a lot cheaper to make a few
panels then there's to build a gigantic
reactor but in terms of for now molten
salt reactors are very promising for
that although we even episode coming up
on the impact of superconductors
actually so tune of 50th episode will be
coming out in about two months
where as we point out one of the nice
things about them is they let you build
your power plants wherever you want and
with the power there without any
resistance or loss so you know right now
New Clothes not too popular because one
you want to have your power
like near well it's actually generating
power and it's a bit of a problem with
solo nuclear fission and things like
that is either the lands taken up or you
don't want in your backyard and then be
like not in my backyard
we hope that with fusion plants that
would be something that was safe that we
can actually have in people's backyards
where superconductors will let us to
allow these other places far away where
the land is cheap or where nobody cares
if the thing melts down
what modern reactor was the new
generation of fission reactors allows us
to do though is put those near the
people and for them to actually feel
safe having them nearby and generating
that power so I hope that we'll see an
expansion in investment research and
actual production of these things but we
will see when we see the forced ownio
type space colony not this century the
smaller ones your things like the
Gateway foundations smaller habitat
that's way moment' is a base not a not a
habitat or planner one buying force
Teague's why don't we like to show on
the channel so much that's designed for
that's a much smaller station designed
for like a thousand people a big one'll
Sondra especially the island 3 or 4 and
that's designed for like a quarter of a
million people to live in and actually
got a foam on and support themselves
basically a mini state or you know
country all of its own in some of those
these are not things you're going to
build anytime soon
any more than you're going to build the
opening soon into you've got you know
ten million people living in space
there's no reason be building a Sloan
habitat for a quarter million of them
you wait until there's a big amount of
people going to live there or CMAs you
just don't build a skyscraper until you
have a city big enough to to house them
and you know don't assume in the early
days of space once we can build these
that they'd be the mainstay either it's
easy to forget that New York and Manila
and Tokyo which have most skyscrapers or
any place in the world they have about
300 each most the city is not even seven
stories high you know there these are
very dense places but
these bigger structures like this they
represent a big investment and I suspect
you see of many many more small ones
early on and you know I start seeing the
big O'Neal's though the ones designed to
do habitats when you either trying we
had a lot of development oh you're
trying for something very specific like
lean on human habitats such as a
rainforest resort or something where you
felt like it was easiest to isolate this
Nature Preserve up in space where people
just couldn't get in and then causing
damage and that is probably one of your
better options for building those over
yards since they need to be big whereas
human habitations we can move back and
forth between them in fact that's
another episode to be riding up fairly
soon which is navigating to and fro for
megastructures
thank you mega structural units I guess
Dakar depends on which one we don't
really have a definition for mega
structures because got Megan there feels
like it should be something million
maybe it's a million me know as babies
million kilometres and the difference
between a million meters and a million
kilometres is a million meters is I
guess the width of a large state or
country whereas a million kilometres is
the width of the earth-moon system so
mega structures new units probably now
you're gonna have something like that
develop we always have anthropic kind of
units developed that are more specific
to day to day usage as opposed to a nice
clean metric system so I suppose you
probably would have a standard size only
or how at the habitat I think we
actually did that and the very original
episode zero megastructures episode we
ran a classification system for that now
I think about it you could do that you
could have something like a standard
size only off same as we say a standard
size suburban habitat or a typical rural
town and everybody knew about what that
was there could even be a standardized
thing that they mass-produced and then
you might have units in terms of those
but I think you more likely have skills
they were like this is a skill that's
the O'Neill so know this your continent
size scale of things like the bishop
ring or the McKendree cylinder and then
you'd have your scale for the truly big
stuff like a you know a banks or bro
ring or a given ring board or
Dyson's for your that Dyson of dyson
sphere's we've talked about occasionally
for butch planets so what that scale
would be I'm sure one would develop them
we actually have an episode on that
coming up soon on dismantling the solar
system though we did talk about a bit in
the dyson sphere's episode the thing is
that same Dyson Sphere as I would say a
Dyson Sphere is not really a mega
structure or any more than a city as a
building it's a collection of these
though you can have some that wore
single or structures your simplest Dyson
Sphere is a bunch of Neos out at the
save point one a you from the Sun a
tenth the distance that it ought is and
therefore one hundredth of surface area
and they'd only need to be a few micron
thick just meals in space but at that
point one large asteroid would do the
job it's just going to be aluminum or
silicon maybe four solar panels and that
will give you a Chicago first row or a
big panel collector to do more than that
it depends on what you want if you want
to fill that entire area up with a
quadrillion oneor so indoors there's
about how many we'd be talking about to
use all of the light that the Sun was
giving us then you're gonna start
running low on material there's not
gonna be enough to do more than maybe an
inch of soil if you take about something
like Earth and earth is weigh about half
of the raw materials outside the gas
giants in the Sun or handle it is very
big oh if we take about Jupiter that
gives a lot more and down sentiment
repro there's probably at least 10 OS
worth of rotten material if we took out
everything every place planet we might
come with twenty times the Earth's
material not even maybe but the Sun has
thousands of times the metals that all
it does and that's we're getting a stall
lifting and you can see the episode on
that about that but yes you could
because if nothing else what you can
start doing is taking all that extra
energy and all the extra hydrogen you
can't build with and weight through
super colliders and you start dimming
the Sun a bit by doing that since you're
decreasing the mass of the Sun and that
means you need less material to in Globe
it in which case no matter what the
story is somehow some way you can
a complete Dyson Sphere of any type you
won around it with enough time patience
and effort but that's true of many
things anyway we're gonna go to break
and we'll take more questions in just a
moment so one break grabbing a drink and
a snack I just wanted to mention that we
hit 500,000 subscribers a week back and
that I'm very grateful to all of you for
the show's continued growth and success
indeed we had a rather large growth
spike while I was away on my honeymoon
and to all the folks who recently joined
us welcome on board one downside though
was that I had been considering a
celebratory episode for the occasion as
we did for one hundred thousand and two
fifty thousand subscribers but it was
late April by the time I had a chance to
notice we were close and then I was off
getting married and going on that
honeymoon and we had a soldier gross so
he had five hundred thousand sooner than
I anticipated
and could prepare an episode for and we
also hit the benchmark on Memorial Day
weekend and as a veteran I tend to be a
bit distracted at holiday too so I
decided we just do a poll for a new
episode to commemorate the benchmark
instead my wife Sarah
hearing me grumble a bit about not being
able to prepare an episode for it in
time
and going through a few drafts for it I
decided not to go forward with surprise
me right after we hit 500,000 with a
balloon and some mint chocolates which
is generally my favourite candy and
dessert flavors she's been a very
welcome help on the channels as we got
back and so it's settling in helping me
set the studio up and test stuff and she
is one of many folks who helped make s
fi a what is today although obviously
the dearest to my heart there's a ton of
folks who volunteer to help edit scripts
brainstorm ideas and make animations or
music for the show and you can see them
in the credit roll every episode but a
lot of folks don't make that role since
it's just who walked on that specific
episode whether it's all patrons and
sponsors helping keep the show funded or
social media motivators helping keep our
forms fun and civil or many of my
friends online or locally who helped me
with ideas of motivation SF ia would not
be the same without them if it existed
at all someone ironically before the
violence came in and shook everything up
I was scheduled to give a talk and
accept an award this weekend down at
Dallas and the international space
development conference and that event
got cancelled or postponed indefinitely
so I couldn't accept that award in
person I'm not a big one for public
speech
but I regretted missing that one because
I want to publicly thank all the folks I
just mentioned as by rights that award
is theirs too and in lieu of that I want
to say so now and say the same thing
about hitting 500,000 subscribers of
course the folks I want to thank the
most is all of those subscribers we very
literally could not be celebrating today
without you and I'm honored you find the
show interesting enough to spend the
time watching it and I hope we'll be
able to keep your minds and imaginations
intrigued for many years to come with
all that said let's get back to the show
we've got the wide shot for just a
moment here we have one question from
treble we have multiple cameras set up
by the way was a follow-up on that wood
disassembly mercury to create a Dyson
Sphere in the business in future what be
my feeling toward that and I guess
account comes into the disassembling of
things in general and we do talk about
that more in that episode that we come
out in a couple months but there's
nothing on Mercury I mean Mokey's
interesting place but if I can turn
mercury into 10 million Earth's worth of
living area something out there or ten
thousand or so with Olivia then why not
you know that's turning something into
something else if you get more out of it
to me that's mostly advantageous rock so
nice but I don't count them as as
valuable as live so just switching where
the other ones for those were you're
curious about the studio we've got the
old webcam from the screens up over here
so anyway just the general notion on
that is that I believe I'm disassembling
Moakley or any other planet other than
Earth and potentially even know what
that came down to it
Supercheap 150 tons of payload etc do
you think we are about to see a
revolution on space exploration in the
question of a SpaceX's new spaceship I
think we already seen one I mean we saw
it yesterday for the launch this is you
know when you date an epoch when you
date a period for of any human you know
in devil you can't date them until a
couple of centuries act was and even
then you tend all you about them like
when did the Renaissance start you ask a
bunch of different scholars get a bunch
of different answers
when did the Information Age start when
did the Industrial Revolution start
what is the computer age when's the
Space Age actually began was it with
Sputnik was before Sputnik was it with
the space station being one where we had
people continuously know about all the
Apollo missions we landed on the moon
SpaceX has been pushing the boundary on
this for a decade now and they are
making amazing progress and I think
we'll see other people saw leap Ian they
are more enthusiastically as we already
do with things like blue or cheon's will
it melt the beginning of things like
space tourism or much mulch or space
stations I hope so
I'd like to see us much more
aggressively going for those paths but
we'll see a lot of times progress we set
back by various crises and and you know
it takes good times a lot of times to
invest although sometimes necessity or
you know it can push things forward - so
fingers crossed and I hope so Thank You
Isaac
arthur c clarke who is actually our book
of the month for June the author of the
month for June we have quite a few books
by him I think he actually was all
booked at the month for rendezvous with
Rama a few years back or company was
back that is a really good book the
sequels that he wrote with Gentry Lee
first ones okay other ones some people
enjoy them
I've liked the original best though
rendezvous with Rama is one of classes
of science fiction if you're on reddit
pick up a copy it is basically an
example of a generation ship based on
what they had going on back then we
actually talk about a little bit in the
generation ships series forced episode
in terms of
how come with the progress of technology
we probably wouldn't be looking at
something like Arama
as international interstellar colony Ark
but basic idea they were being you take
something like noni or so no a big self
enclosed habitat and use it as a
spaceship and that allows you to these
you know thousand year long voyages and
keep a population in mind and we're
always will be like genetic bottleneck
even they've got only a few thousand
people on a ship ontogenetic bottle next
you could go to much bigger spaceship
however you can keep frozen stores of
DNA to be you know you know just putting
into your population to avoid that by
necking you'd have gene therapy to avoid
issues with that bottlenecking
and you can even store DNA digitally and
print it off it's very expensive to you
right now but it's a completely
functional technology so you don't
actually have to worry about that
genetic bomb-making issue quite so much
stores your saw and exporting Hoth with
a lot of other species if you're trying
to carry earth with you to a new plant
planted somewhere big boys always battle
so but as the book itself all the sea
clock is just a great right off so pick
it up I'm trying to member when I
actually got it it was I don't like to
wear ties very much dating back to at
least one occasion when I got ones stuck
in a door and almost half straggling on
it so I tend not to wear ties too much
but if you just wearing a bun up short
by itself it doesn't quite look right so
I thought I'd give myself up eye to eye
elbow low tide it was those look a
little bit nicer but I thought it should
be something a little bit more thematic
I suppose I might technically count as a
far more these days but really not so
much I ranch blueberries so maybe that's
that's the one but I know I just the PI
tides was one that kind of caught me it
seems appropriate for the show so as to
uh yeah I gotta actually can't member
ian-sue I picked on Amazon somehow adapt
but I'm fond of it and there's no real
good back story a little look nice
kind of an important thing to remember
that stuff like wind power is that you
know when we talk about dust storms on
Mars or all the wind on Mars
it's not just the speed the stuff is
moving at it's how much actual material
is hitting you you know this all comes
down to individual particles striking in
this case a wind turbine it's not the
speed of the air that really matters
that it's the amount of actual force
being applied to that fan to tone it so
malwa sopla has very high speeds of wind
but also has very little actual air and
so there's not that much gonna be
pushing on the fan to tone it that said
yeah you probably could get wind in
place with that I'd have to de for
somebody was more familiar with the
actual dynamics of wind turbines
nowadays say how well that would be
something we could switch over to using
nail but I would tend to bet your better
bet they would probably still be solo
although some wind during the dust
storms when the sole was covered might
be better but I think it was my
preference on to see though power
satellites beaming it down the surface
or good old-fashioned fission power
plants so could it walk probably you
could make an argument that this is
something we already do and that's an
important one with a lot of the ethical
questions we call with with in science
with new technologies we say is this
ethical and say I don't know if I can
answer if it's ethic or not I just try
to ask is this a new question you know
what something like cybernetics is it is
it ethical to give someone a cyborg home
most would say nowadays you out there
machine olam it's perfectly fine to do
that but of course we already pacemakers
and things like that we already do
glasses cochlear implants things like
that when it comes to things like
genetic engineering I don't know if it's
actually ethical to genetically engineer
people or animals or maybe it's okay to
do animals or maybe it's okay to do
plants but not people the thing is we've
already been doing it well we've been
engaged in genetic engineering about
plants or crops or livestock and all
people in many cases to for centuries
people aren't so good at cooperating for
that but we've certainly done a lot of
3d
with that kind of intent and my fault
livestock so the question isn't is
genetic manipulation when we get the
technology for death going on its the
question is now that we can do it for
sure now that we can definitely do it
with a very design intent is me better
or worse than we've been trying to do it
for centuries and with mixed results you
know so I don't know that that's really
the right question to ask in general I
wouldn't want doing those screens to
make a caste system we see that in
science fiction a lot where you've had
like they breed for walkers and
diplomats and they got they their
scientists cast and they creative casts
like that I would not want to see
something like that happen personally I
think we see a bit of an example then I
believe was brave new world by Aldous
Huxley where they have these the alphas
the betas and the gammas the deltas and
greatness also not sure if I remember
that book that well but ethically I
don't think there's anything wrong with
manipulating DNA in humans or anyone
else in and of itself the S becomes kind
down to where you land on he is okay to
breed with intent to produce a given
trait or to keep a trade or enhance
trade and if it's okay to do over there
was them assuming it's okay to do in a
lab nowadays with animals
it's okay T with the people then
presumably that's still gonna be your
opinion input the more advanced
technology I don't know where I've land
on a lot of these issues myself and I'm
sure we all have different opinions and
it's one of those ones where we kind of
see how the technology wars out with
that decide whether or not it would be
so will the colonization space
colonization be the domain of
governments or private companies you
know it all depends so much on on how
big those efforts need to be personally
I would hope as space as show us that we
would see a lot of private groups doing
that the universe we for the moment a
non capitalist set up you would still
hope that a lot of private groups would
be able to do that
small-scale individually inside of a
capitalist setup you only hope small
businesses will be able in a space they
wouldn't need people like SpaceX doing
it but you know you have a mom-and-pop
shop they
a space cafe on the movement or
something like that we want to widen the
doors for human endeavor we don't want
to be limiting it for now it's gonna
remain something that has a heavy
government involvement and that would
presumably never end because once you
have a big development up in space you
person we have governments they are
doing stuff in space but I don't think
it's an end or question I think that
your best result is going to be both and
not just mega corporations and maker
governments you know that you have small
countries that you might have individual
townships and counties or villages or
cities that have their own investments
up in space that you would have not just
big companies with billion dollar
budgets doing it but you know small
startups of you know family farms is wor
the equivalent of the small business a
family restaurant in space so that would
be my preference as to what will happen
I hope that is the one but I we have to
wait and see how the technology was out
I have thought about reviewing sci-fi
books from time time and we do actually
do that on the show um you know we do
that a little bit for the
book-of-the-month but I talk about the
concepts but in general the issue is
that I tend to feel that if you haven't
got something good to say especially
when it's going on the Internet's don't
say anything at all so usually we only
do books that I am very very fond of but
I would say that if you were looking for
very good reviews of science fiction I
think I mentioned SFTP earlier in the
show check them out I actually don't
know what that is I've been not keep you
up on things last couple months I'll
have to go check that out at some point
in time I imagine splendid new videos
but they usually are vague over the
science time with either the black hole
bomb episode and that was quite a fun
one with good sign so I'll have to check
that out and get back to you
Isaac you should do a TV show with the
guys from event horizon and cool world
you know I can't move the name of the
guy who runs the core Ward show we have
spoken briefly and of course event
horizon that's John Michael Gautier
Channel and John's good friend but I
don't know what we do for a TV show on
something like that I think we're all
kinda like doing her own thing a lot
here on YouTube we got out of
flexibility so the idea but probably
time to zoom Thank You Allen
I think we speed you up a bit so we get
through some more questions for the
internship artificial plants was his
tail forming if you got a paradise
planet like of--they just stumble across
one that's perfect for terraforming go
for it yeah it's gonna have an extra
value as war but in general as we always
say it's so much easier faster and in
mid cases metal to be creating
artificial habitats tailored to the
gravity weather accessory that you want
as opposed to a place like mall this way
all the gravity is gonna be very low
unless you don't the black hole in the
pit over something like that so I think
artificial habitats all we're 99.9999%
of populations to live in in a couple
millennia and less most them live on
computer chips welcome and thank you as
well
ways of generating artificial gravity
without using certain terrific or for us
you really only got the two that we know
of right now you can use a lot of mass
or you can lose a lot of acceleration
which is essentially what some typical
acceleration is doing though you could
do it linearly with a spaceship - I
thought these a lot of fuel probably way
too much but mass wise we might come up
with some really dense materials
compared to things like osmium even but
otherwise your best bet would probably
be a micro black hole that you created
stuck in a box and put it at the center
of whatever artificial planet you're
building or then you have to carry all
that mass around oh so it's have the
idea for spaceship so rotating gravity
does look like the way of the future
Matthew says how long do you think it
will be before we have a human colony
around another star or on an exoplanet
couple centuries force you got the
travel time second we will not send out
a mission like that unless it to be
opponent base in terms of a manned
mission
you can't send them they owe and ever
have to get support for them it's
probably saying it's gonna happen
Tomales we might go tomorrow is land
apply you know land they'll plant the
flag gather some rock samples but I
think there's a much probability of a
place like Mars when we're going to do
it we do this opponent base from day one
because it almost has me since it be
there for months and it's multi your
travel time that's even worse in the
case of interstellar travel you send
them out there they're not coming home
not for a very long time best these are
journeys that year they can with the
speed of light or take decades but
probably a decade to a century to get
there is your best bet with anything we
could come up with which would probably
be like laser propulsion oh you saying
they were from day one for keeps to do
that you need to make sure you have all
that colonial effort designed all that
equipment all that life support all that
environmental engineering down pat which
means you test it which means you test
in the solar system you know of doing
this in small moons or asteroids or
cloud habitats or things out of the
Kuiper belt and seeing what real
problems come up
what day-to-day problems come up with
the technology the lifestyles and then
when you've had a chance to prove this
over decades all these artificial
habitats and things like that then you
set your spaceship until then you do
unmanned probes and I don't know that
there's any other practical realistic
way to do that so that takes a little
time though so think centuries opium up
your Force Ones probably likely be a
modular space station that's got some
rooms or space devoted to those and so
you have you know someone's gonna want
to go film a movie up there you know
just be able to say they filmed a movie
up there even was just nopales affair as
opposed to using the vomit comet for
their low gravity stuff
someone's gonna wanted to go some hydro
packs
you know hydroponics that they
do some lettuce they want to do from a
scientific test perspective but they say
well we need a big sample anyway we need
to grow several hundred pieces of
lettuce and would actually see what
happens with it so we might as well sold
them to the gas so you see something
like that I've even given over to that
same full of toys and you're going up
there to visit the hydroponic farm want
to visit the movie set in many cases or
to just float around and see Oh gravity
I think you're forced big commercial
space station is going to be
multi-purpose from the get-go as a
design feature it's not going to be a
specific one and then you get specific
stuff later down the road if you haven't
well intergalactic how would you run an
intergalactic community or how would I
went into galactic community since the
without a faster light communication
system it would take you millions of
years to send any message to your
various colonies I would say you would
not learn that at all but by default I
would always before to run something
democratically you know you have your
local galaxy Senate with its local
clusters and so forth hmm let's see
could make engineering Kazem making
drink caused environmental problems in
space space to pay each big one
radiation is potential issue too though
that's a hard one in space because
there's so much of it really your
biggest one is space to be that could
cause environmental problems on planets
in the sense of space to be constant
rainy orbits or things blocking light
and I guess that would be the biggest
concern on that one oh so thank you for
the wedding congratulations
I don't know of anything besides space
debris or just moving where the lights
landing that would be likely cause
environmental damage so that's how I can
think of on that one
to build ships in space rather than on
earth and would there be advantages to
building rockets and ships in space the
ideal is always to build them up in
space in the first place but you need to
have the manpower and infrastructure
their force that's why the moon is such
a great potential place for doing that
adds mmm if you've got all the robots up
there doing the walk remotely or if you
got big crews up there then you build
those spaceships now you don't build a
space ship designed laying on a planet
you build a spaceship design take little
shuttles that would go down from orbit
or to the outpost and which would have
its own space elevator wherever we but
yeah building spaceships in space is
basically the biggest next step whether
or not we do that before after we do the
mall which is a different story but in
you always want to be trying to build
your stuff up there so you have to try
to drag it through all atmosphere with
its payload limits immortal no I would
not want to live forever
I wouldn't mind living a few thousand
years or a few million years but I that
always strikes me is for those of you
familiar with things going mouths wishes
and genies and lamps or wings or three
wishes of one of those ones we'll be
careful what you wish for
I do not think I don't want to live
forever I would be quite happy to live
several million years potentially too
though but yeah how would you define the
destination how would you link specific
points in space and/or time hmm well
first of all thank you if wormholes
could be traverse for and and was it
going to assume for the moment that you
mean horses travel inside all universe
as opposed to one's going to another
universe or similar I mean I suppose you
do something even network system I think
they play with something along that idea
in in the expanse series where you don't
have just like one Deep Space nine style
big wormhole that one goes and travels
to well you'd have big Junction those
where you know you know 100 wormholes
they come into once
system and people go that one go to
another one and you have junctions and
basically probably trying to lay it out
like you had railway development or
things hubs places where there are tons
of them and ones they have much more
motion through them a thing with
wormholes again we don't know much about
them but they would have a width and
that depends on the mass you're building
them with so you could make ones that
were skinnier and could handle small
spaceship and all those you could put
through much wile valiums of material so
basically just you loose nodal hub will
never work I think would be the most
logical way to do it the interesting
thing about some typical force on on
plants or lower moons is that if you've
got two gathered in place you're gonna
be tilting a bit
you have the gravity from the moon point
you down and then you got your
centrifugal rotation pulling you to the
side as your new down and so that comes
out in a bit of an angle the thing is
why we tend to think I could do a bit of
a bowl shape and live inside that only
on a place like Mars or Venus but
actually much like a bowl
everywhere else gonna be more like a
very very deep base you can do that on
the moon you can have a bit of an angle
to it and then once you get the thing is
much smaller than the moon you really
don't need to do it all maybe just a
little bit of tilting to avoid it but
that would walk the circular track
approach would certainly walk and that
might not be a bad approach it's just
that you're only gonna have that train
that's running around doing that and
it's to have that tilted for I think in
a case like that you still go ahead and
do the more than bowl shape or on shape
thing than just one spin you mount cold
and that's just the same thing as
whether you like a ring habitat or a
cylinder habitat there being skinny and
wide the sooner has a lot more area to
it so it just depends on how big the
habitat you need you got that minimum
rotational radius if you need a small
one you keep it together otherwise you
build big which northbound places are on
my bucket list I actually got to go to a
lot of them already but I think I was
saying
Seiler I want to actually go see Mount
Rushmore and posted well these days in
the Grand Canyon I've never been there
so I don't like to put those on my
bucket list though because that implies
you never gonna get there I still have a
lot of sightseeing to do in Europe I've
been mining done I'd love to see the
pyramids but as to fictional locations I
would not mind visiting the moon I would
very much like to do that almost but
visit not live as two fictional ones not
Warhammer 40k I would not want to be in
that place at all though it's fun to
read about um the Star Trek study of
course it's very happy or Iain M banks
culture series again very very happy
place to live with lots of resources so
most the interesting ones the dystopian
I would not want to visit most the ones
which were very paradise like yes I
think will pretty much other questions
the moment or I think we got one more
okay Astro GCRs how much is your mic I
do not know I'll top my head on which I
paid for the mic I'm corny using I've
had it for a while I've actually gone
through a couple of different
microphones over the series run and I've
had a couple I've gotten since I got the
court one that I did not like and either
returned or gave two friends because
they will allege the higher quality ones
or gain better sound but I didn't
actually turn out to like them quite as
much this point I don't think was very
expensive though I know I need to get
another one so that Sierra can actually
read the questions louder next time
which been a very great help but I
suppose you probably have to google it
up I think the brand names on the side I
think though and I think we have time
for one more question
follow-up from the naked monk says
thanks for the answer I didn't mean the
schema under student guards the wormhole
net walk
I meant how would you target a specific
end point like do you point a one more
at a destination or a minute specific
direction good question we don't know it
depends on theory the idea is if I
create a wormhole at one place how do I
get the wormhole to the destination one
way we know when a certain theory is
that would walk is you create both ends
of the wormhole right next to each other
and then you drag the ends to what you
want them to be this is problematic
since
most theories for Mom [ __ ] say they
need away at least as much as stupid or
if not several billion times more such
being the case it's a slow process you
have to go stuff like to get there and
it's a lot of mass to hang around but if
you had a way to actually aim what was
going to pop up which potentially is
possible I hope to say then that was
only the idea one is a presumably less
you go to those places originally a
faster lies but most of the evidence we
have where a woman was concerned which
is of course strictly theoretical anyway
would say that you probably have to make
both junctions at the same location and
then take the other end to your
destination which means it doesn't let
you colonize fast or light but it does
mean that once you get your colony in
place you could travel from point A to
point B fashion lines although as I've
mentioned on many occasions I don't
expect us to ever actually get
functioning fashion I travel wormholes
are not inside this universe I keep my
fingers fast little bit more before the
pops maybe travels for wormholes to
other universes but we'll have to see
obviously s theory develops on that more
and guess this is probably a good time
to go ahead and cut off if we missed
your question please leave it in the
comments below and I'll try to get back
to it later this evening or tomorrow and
for everybody who donate out super chat
thank you very much I hope we got you a
question or comment too and again leave
them the chat if you missed them
as for else thank you for joining me
today sorry we had some technical
glitches at the beginning and we will
see you next month about the same time
in place so thank you for joining us and
have a great afternoon
so that will wrap us up for the day I
want to thank everyone for joining us
and again if we didn't get your question
feel free to post us a comment below and
I'll try to get to it this evening
also you can continue the conversation
at any of the forms on Facebook reddit
discord or all website Isak all thought
Matt thanks for joining us and we'll see
you Thursday
[Music]
