often in discussion of how big the
universe is or the absorbable Universe
we'll hear the torm Hubble volume and
none of these three are the same thing
we don't know how far the universe
extends Over the cosmological Horizon
where space is expanding between us at a
rate faster than light can travel from
it possibly on to Infinity but the
absorbable Universe includes everything
we can currently get photons from even
that left those places billions of years
ago and extends to include a volume 46.5
billion light years in radius though
those objects we see furthest away will
far closer when that light was emitted
the hover volume is smaller the place
where light could reach us eventually if
it left today or where we could get a
signal to and it's more like 14.4
billion light years in radius nothing
Beyond this distance currently could
ever be reached by a signal or ship from
us without FTL see your episode the edge
of the universe for more discussion
