complete livestream will begin started
in just a moment so it's a great time to
stop getting questions into the chat
window for all moderators to review and
copy over to me so we can jump right
into the Q&A if we don't have a chance
to get your questions today feel free to
leave them in the comment section on the
video you know try to get them a while
after the show or visit any of our
social media sites like Reddit and
Facebook to continue discussion with me
or the other audience members and let's
get started
good afternoon everybody and welcome to
our show
we're gonna go ahead and see it started
with questions in just a second while
we're getting ready to get started here
please get your questions into the
moderator is in is legible format as you
can so they can give them as transferred
over to me if you're not too clear on
that there's usually a light I'm about
10 to 15 minutes our question actually
reaches me as we go through them and all
moderators picked them out from the chat
window put them over to me on our
discord so avoid and I gets them in
order basically so please try to keep
those clear and concise we had our first
question from Ryan was asking if we were
going to be covering threats to people
in the future or not and we did actually
recently do the threats to
interplanetary and interstellar
civilizations and I don't know if we're
gonna follow that up anytime too soon
with anything more detailed than that
but I think you would you actually cover
a lot of threats to civilizations we
just that late filters episode for
instance but so often the car threats
we'd have to be looking at we things we
wouldn't be expecting but what we call
it out of context problem or OCP or
Black Swan black swuan be in one way or
it's really obvious in hindsight and we
every did an episode on that some years
back where the poem is really obvious in
hindsight but you don't see it till
afterwards and then OCP and out of
context problem is one way you have no
context whatsoever for dealing with it
it just comes out of the blue and really
the best you can do is kind of a crisis
management of being used to handling you
know crazy snowy o's so we probably will
look at some of those in the future we
have looked at quite a few but it's kind
of hard to say which ones we'd be
looking at dealing with because we just
don't really know what those problems
will be feeble for our ESS Isaac you
said a couple of times that Warhammer
40k did some science better than other
sci-fi you know forces can you advise on
top three things Warhammer 40k universe
did write warrior 40k for those of you
don't know is a a well was a tabletop
board game that kind of turned into a
quite a big setting we call an expanding
universe setting and one of the things
they get right there in a setting that
is essentially a dystopian future
that's very crazy and full of
supernatural stuff is that they get the
scale of time and civilization a lot
better than most sci-fi shows do and it
some degree it's when you're running a
book on something just one novel or one
movie you really can't ever convey scope
to the same degree like in the Star Wars
films we see the sheer size the fleet's
can you engage with each other and that
gives a bit of an idea how big these
Empire is all but one of things the 40k
does really well is just to kind of
indicate what do we like you actually
had a civilization that not only was
composed of a million walls but had
actually been gliding along for 10,000
years and that's kind of the big one
there they give the numbers of skills
right they don't evolve to some degree
anyway they start recognizing if you got
a big old hive city that means there's a
trillion people on that planet not a few
hundred you know million they kind of
get the notion right that you know you
would not have fleets of a ship or two
like in deep space 9 while the force one
is they can rely on the CGI lets you see
real fleets in action until then they
were limited like one or two models and
kept anonymous camera you stock in the
impression oh wow the the Federation of
Planets which covers a decent chunk of
the galaxy happens to have you know
actual fleet but even then the scale is
not that big you get the impression is
less than one ship post for solar system
they control and that's one of those
things that posties be playing on CGI
but a lot of times just cuz the sci-fi
miles don't really think of the scale
you know Peter a story over vas assuming
our knowledge of cosmology is actually
missing and black swan type ok knowledge
say hyperspace is something else how we
think about go about discovering it how
do you go about on eclis if something is
a black swan you pretty much by
definition can't discover it in advance
because of you if you knew what it was
or you had to go about getting it so you
you wouldn't be a black swan as an
example this cellphone is not a black
swan we knew those for coming quite a
long way out these are former they take
was how to say but
the blacks want to be stuff like social
media that was quite a Black Swan things
like Netflix was of a limited economic
Black Swan computers in general wore
Black Swan ball totally robotic
automation was Knox we saw that one
coming quite a ways out
in hindsight these things make perfect
sense we understand completely why why
they took off but in in advance we
really did not something like hyperspace
first you have to have some kind of lead
to let you know where it is you can't
try to force discovery something that
you don't know if it even exists you
know in terms of basic theory or setup
if we came across something that was a
mystery I mean this happens with science
you don't go out looking for gee if you
have something you try to figure out
what it's causing but otherwise we
mostly come across these things when we
do an experiment and in some environment
or in the main experiment itself
something's not quite right it's not
coming out quite the model but the model
seems to walk and so we start trying to
run it in different places and see what
little differences are popping up and
try to run down what is causing this
difference and I don't know how we would
detect something like hyperspace because
we don't know what it is if it exists or
where it might be located or what it
operates on we'd have to find some way
of you know funny unnatural effect or
that was already you know universe so
cthe Morocco ass Isaac what are some
things you do what what are some things
do you think should be required things
to try to keep realistic within sci-fi
and not fashion like travel that's the
most common hand wave in science fiction
but it's unfortunately a kind of a
necessary hand wave either the
communication or the physical side now
you could do a lot in a setting by just
sticking to one solar system you can
never really exhaust the options with
single planet's most fiction is written
on modern day off but you know something
I got Dyson swarm could be a setting for
millions of books and I mean barely
scratch the surface you can set an
entire galaxy inside one um but if you
try and do interstellar stuff you
usually do have to start doing that hand
wave now not everyone does Alastair
winos for instance doesn't do that a
desi tailor does do it with
communications but he doesn't do it for
Travel for instance and that works out
very well but it takes a little bit of
extra effort I'd say the next big one
that I wish Athos would stop doing and
going back 40k references genious skills
right
you could have a plant that was
colonized by only a few million people
even thousands of people but you
shouldn't have a plant that's been seen
there for you know hundreds of years as
a regular trade hub and it's just got
one city somewhere with no you know it
one unique cultural that is really not
seen anywhere else on the planet or
everyone's got the same attitude it
becomes very undercut it's it's little
you know the basic sketch is there but
the author didn't really fill in the
stuff and of course that depends on the
author and how much time they might
spend on that place but it tends to make
their places seem kind of small when
you're trying to go for big and epic
you'd actually show people big and epic
otherwise on the realism side I guess it
would just be that it would be nice if
some actually bothered to look some
science up first
thank you more Johnson could bounty
hunting be a real thing I said the
mandalorian just came out could bounty
hunting be a real thing with so much
space to expand into any rock with a
spinning wheel can be community can be a
community to hide in does it make sense
to hire a long distance criminal
retrieval there was a anime code a
Cowboy Bebop where they did something
very similar that to throughout the
sources and they were hunting down
criminals who were going from this
planet or station to another yeah I mean
probably I I don't know there would be
quite as exciting as a film but life
really is as exciting as the film's
we're gonna go watch the films if you
have criminals and they need to be
tracked down someone presumably needs to
do that job and needs due to cost
jurisdiction lines if they'll
jurisdiction lines um I mean it's a real
thing nowadays we have plenty of bounty
coming that goes on in the United States
and I imagine other countries too but
it's not usually gonna be as glamorous
as folks who tend to expect and so
probably don't Boba Fett's in the future
but who can say on that flintlocks ass
all cryptocurrency is a Black Swan how
do you how do you think cryptography
will affect government and Taxation
be itself very little hmm in except for
the terms of investigating people's
correspondence and in so relatively
recent times nobody you really couldn't
track people's correspondence at all
anyway in taxes are not a new thing and
you know even keeping written copies of
your business dealings was a pretty real
thing beyond the most broad terms until
not even last century it was still
pretty rare for anyone to actually keep
much in the way of receipts or transfers
or own bills of lading the so many
electronic correspondence was another
thing and if you want to get X 2 that
corresponds part of the electronic gear
your only option was to go get a warrant
and sort and grab those papers or to
read through them
and so in that regard cryptography is no
different you just tell the person that
they had to open up files up do it
should have to get a warrant to do
something like that now in terms of
crypt of course he being a Black Swan no
because most stuff we think I mean it
could be but most things we'd anticipate
cryptocurrencies disrupt you know things
we already anticipate so again it's if
he owes additional effects we don't see
that's that's the big central focus for
a Black Swan the biggest disruption you
tend to have with cryptocurrency is that
it makes it very hard to deal with black
markets in terms of intellectual
property you still have to actually ship
stuff back and forth but again remember
when told you know 30 40 years ago you
could just hand somebody cash and large
quantities of it it was a really track
that well and there wasn't that much
soul-g of of you know freight trucks or
posts or things so it's a bit of a
difference but I don't think it's gonna
be one of those huge ones that knocks
over civilizations grandad will ask do
you think it's possible that a techno
primitiveness ideology could be in the
could in the future or banned technology
they need ain't none of coffee today
excuse me do you think it's possible
that a techno primitiveness tied
ideology could in the future banned
technology they deem dangerous like AIX
Etta and succeeded converting humanity
into a technophobic civilization now you
could to some degree do that but we
never actually had a technophobic
movement as we covered in that episode
even the Luddites the most notorious
anti-technology group are not ain't
technology and they were mostly worried
about label regulations and in terms of
automation in that period the Amish
might be another example we look at but
I mean I'll in an area that has tons of
automation read them have cellphones
they're not our cost for an
anti-technology
they are against some of the
applications of specific technologies or
some of the cultural effects of
convenience technology what you most
likely see as technophobia where I had a
justification like artificial
intelligence you might ban artificial
intelligence and you might ban associate
technologies that made it much easier
for somebody to actually create an AI in
their home we might see something like
that with 3d printing just because there
are certain technologies that if they
walk as we kind of expect them to or
potentially could expect them to we just
become so dangerous that anything that
is you know using that technology or
it's very close to allowing you to use
that technology your way you could just
you know one extra step and they're you
all those are sort of things that I was
on a general technology ban but I can't
see us ever getting to anti
technological and I really have never
been in civilizations that truly war
that we are aware of I mean there's
quite a few that have not really
embraced technology that much um the
despair man asks do you think FTO is
possible I do not FTL is one of those
things where if we assume the universe
runs on cause and effect without
exception you can pretty much write off
faster and light technology period
there's really no way to play around
with that in in terms of Islay in an
Einsteinian sense warp drives for
instance technically do not violate them
but even then every technology that in
that we everything on paper we were done
that might allow faster light travel or
communication always bumps into
acquiring something that we don't have
like negative matter and energy and I
know they occasionally to release
science I was saying that we've
discovered something like that but what
the science article actually said was
something that acts like we'd expect
negative matter act right in this one
context and even then it's a very loose
correlation that really has nothing new
with that like when they say a scientist
makes black hole then
as like no they made a substance that
was always one frequency of like very
very well but in Tillman's fto i mean
see the FTL series for some discussion
of that and we'll look at a bit more in
the time travel episode that we're
starting the year off I think that's
January 2nd
koc ass Isaac what's your favorite anime
hmm I'm not really a big anime watch or
I was fun - the Death Note anime and I
think it's another one mm-hmm there's
been a few but I'm not really a huge fan
of that that particular genre I think is
the animation it's hard on the eyes some
of them all anyway
bozhe asked what collaboration videos do
you have planned in the near future and
with whom I think Christian from
launchpad astronomy I applied to a
collaboration sometime near future that
I had to get on on delay for a bit so
that probably I don't that'd be on next
clamp but that's the only one corny on
the radar to do I should probably poke
Joe Cody or John see if they feel like
you want a facial but we're just not
been doing claps as much I think the
last one was over the summer with Jade
and I do enjoy doing those but usually I
just can't stick to all schedule and if
someone asked me if they want to do you
know do you want to do a collab I'm all
for it usually so let's see dr. flash
born ass
I've noticed you after assume that
humanity will remain mostly as they are
today don't you think that with AI
revolutions humanoids are about to
disappear whether they mojo get replaced
no one know respectively
I do not assume that humanity will
remain mostly same as they are today
it's just when we're discussing a topic
in in the show you're trying to make
these things relatable to folks and
since I don't know exactly what the
future might be like in that regard
- two other things I try to limit the
changes - you know how we be living to
just that one technology or two
technology under discussion for that day
so I would be rather surprised if humans
think a little bit more cyborg II or
genetically engineered in the future I
just don't think that's one of those
things where it's gonna happen overnight
and in an extreme fashion no no
carnelian sings or you know super cyber
wars fought around punching
two walls you know the effect of dental
fillings which is a cybernetic
alteration or glasses these are pretty
big on civilisation but you can't really
anticipate to much what those are gonna
be and if you try to keep something
explainable you limit what you talked
about even in all videos we only have 30
minutes that's so longer than most
videos that's still a very short period
of time to discuss topics so you try to
live with the number of tangents you
include as to whether I think we're
actually going to just you know get
merged or replaced I don't really see
anything specifically replacing us um
you want to be really careful using
evolutionary guidelines for talking
about species being replaced what we
probably see is a big divergence in what
qualifies as being human
but even though that's helped to say and
you might have places where people all
exactly like they all now who are not
particularly techno printers they don't
mess around with their brains much or
they of their biology but they're happy
to use technology other places people
might you know do things to enhance the
thinking speed or you know improve their
DNA to get rid of any types of health
deficiencies or even improve it to
augment it with something new like the
ability to see infrared and then you
might have place to if you decide they
want to go all out and they they were
totally uploaded minds or they mmm
they decided I want to have four legs
you know and walk around like a centaur
and they may or may not keep calling
themselves human at that point in time
but you know we divulge I mean that's
that's kind of what happens we have a
successful case it diverges around and
spreads out and you know it gets its new
environments and mutates around very I
can ask do you think super intelligent
AI will replace politicians in the
future you know there's a joke on kids
you make on the show is that if you have
a big AI like Skynet try and take over
the war they're not gonna do it by
trying to bomb everyone they do it by
running for political office
um there's an assumption that a machine
a very intelligent machine would somehow
be bad at social interactions that's a
big chunk of what we use our brains for
as humans and that is absolutely
loanable trait
I would expect a very small AI to being
incredibly charismatic whether or not
they'd replace politicians the future I
don't know some of them already kind of
robotic Dave blue ass you often say the
Sun could power lasers that propel ships
around would these beams home objects
crossing their paths and meet the you
know solar system hazardous for other
activities you know shining a flashlight
around a lighthouse is potentially
damaging to anybody could send the eyes
that you have to be careful using
something like that but you're not
likely to be concentrating these beams
the point they could actually see your
skin for instance you might but you
probably would not just because at that
point to become a weapon and when you
give it a much thinner large or sail for
instance that might do the job just as
well um you also only need to push ships
on the ecliptic when you're trying to
move them around our solar system very
few of the objects that we want to be
visiting other solar systems would be on
or ecliptic path so in most cases you be
aiming the beam up or down to some
degree but space is huge it really is is
difficult to say how huge space is and
he kind of same context and I really
can't imagine that you really had that
much of an issue with lean things
especially because everything would be
running with an iff for some sort it's a
control issue in terms of making sure
everybody knows where everything is and
that's like your calf controllers there
might be not being mistakes from time to
time but new coordinates use as much
computing power and detection as you
reasonably can and so you try to avoid
letting that get clogged but you know
just that the pragmatist and realist to
me says they would be down to be at
least some instant of accident or
sabotage and you know the you decide is
this worth it well almost every good
technology we have comes with something
like that attached so I'm not gonna say
it can't happen but I suspected a copy
would not happen very much or will not
be a magical issue
figure pavani ass Isaac looking sharp
thank you what are the odds of finding
alien intelligence being artificial
instead of organic do we only really saw
AI aliens episode I think we did um
who's tracked what episodes came out
sometimes what's the ones that all busy
being created
I would tend to think that if you mean
something face-to-face for the first
time that was alien the only reason
wouldn't be a machine of some sort
mmm would be because they decided you
know that they just thought it was
appropriate to meet you in person in the
flesh they might not have flesh of
course mmm but by and load you'd expect
the vanguard of almost any civilization
to be automated because that means
you're not risking anybody and you know
you're far away from home in case like
that you really do not want your
Vanguard of detection scouting being
done by brave low-noise like Lois and
Clark because well you know as many
explorers from the Age of sail could
testify if they had survived that could
be very dangerous so I would tend to
think that by and large you would use
automation as your vanguard and follow
that up with other things
Nikolas thank you very much with the
waste and triple chance with the way
centrifugal force walks wouldn't the
cone shaped habitats like on Pluto have
uneven gravity as the circumference
people would walk around on is moving
slower toward the small end yeah we do
one of those ball shaped
habitats but you're spinning around your
gravity is not gonna be consistent
throughout in terms of strength what
you're doing is putting a Cove in place
on it so that in the direction stays
point you that way and even then you
might need to do some tearing you've got
a bottom that is you know down towards
your feet that's the goal on that one
you got to angle the the spinning object
that way you know soon though you can
keep the strength you know the same
throughout the entirety of the thing and
you have a pointing right out away from
the axon the to thing to well you're
trying to spin a ball around on top of
gravity then yes you've gotta have
slightly different gravity and that's
one of these we go for that ball shape
is that it uh it's really more like a
vase to be honest a very skinny narrow
we usually show it as a bit of a wide
ball but it's more like a you know like
a vase but yeah you're not gonna have
perfectly even gravity strength there
and you're mostly going to be focusing
on doing a lot of Taylor see on the
landscape so that you can keep it keep
it flat enough so that down on a young
piece of land or float standing on top
of it is actually pointing down not a
perfect solution but it's probably good
enough and depends on size too okay
remember when we talked about
centrifugal force and Coriolis force on
these habitats and people say it's not
gonna be quite right is it they say well
we have that on earth there was a
powerful now centripetal force on earth
and skill helps but it doesn't really
you know feel that much you say gravity
points down and all no in most places it
does not actually point straight down
it's just not as much as we tend to
notice it's also not the same at all
places gravity on the equator at a high
altitude or at the poles it will point
different directions to some degree and
be a little bit strong or weak or and
not by a trivial amount not enough for
us to notice but anosmia quail really
advanced ghee or to detect Dave marks
ass if the neuro-link thing from Elon
Musk only costs $1000 would you get it
and not it's corn format oh I approve of
Technology I like to see technology
getting improved I like to see people
occasion experimented with it but
there's always people are willing to be
that ones taking the risk and I'm more
than happy let them do that they want
for my part I would really wanna wait
too it was unlike the second generation
what I had occasion to happen but it's
good to be doing research on that
subject but it's not really a cost issue
I at this time it's more of a what's
giving you and does a walk and it isn't
safe Horsehead productions ass loved
you're quite revolutions video thank you
where you compared current versus future
lifestyles any chance of a continuation
probably I did like doing that episode
and the thing is a couple of times I
decide to do a continuation of it in
kind of a specified thing like education
or automated jobs but I feel like there
is probably those particular topics
turned out to be a lot harder to write
in a decent way and I thought they're
gonna be so we'll get around to doing
poppy at some point but I'm not sure
what the - should I do with like a pot -
or a focus in and that's always an issue
on these episodes is uh I don't really
like to remake episodes I before to
either extend them or pick a pick or
topic that was inside that and you
expand on that and I'm not sure which
what I want to do with that yeah Blake
Johnson asked hey Isaac I would love to
know what you think the first thing you
follow me conformed and credible
detection of an alien civilization say a
Dyson swarm or the Omega structure hmm I
guess it would depend on the context if
we picked up a Dyson swarm in say
Andromeda like Andromeda galaxy I would
probably say oh I life's not that common
but there we go we got a bit of a
timescale for that and said that's a
little bit improbable but not too
particularly improbable because having
one civilization pop up in a couple
million year window of us that was on
par with us technologically would not be
that big of a deal but if I just saw a
single lone Dyson swarm by itself it was
closer to home like it was just for the
few thousand light-years liked a beast
all I wouldn't assume it was real but if
it was I'd stop assuming that there was
some really huge missing chunk of all
view of science and and reality that we
were off about because it would just be
too improbable for something I had to
pop up this close and for us not for
seeing that kind of Dyson dilemma
expansion wave somewhere else in the
universe
um take a couple more questions where we
go to break
matt'll beam asked you a skyhook video
is getting a lot of renewed interest
would you ever like to revisit it
probably not I mean well we're gonna be
talking about skyhooks a little bit in
the the moon episode coming up
Industrial Complex
that's only January as well and would
followed up with moon crater cities
couple weeks later but I know Kozak just
recently did a video on that and that's
the source of that minuite interest and
I'm very glad to see that starting take
off I casually feel bad that I called
episode skyhooks instead of row tomatoes
because then you could call the sky host
occasionally but motivator was the
normal term so I just have like skyhooks
bad also does not say I got popularized
um but they just did a video on it it
was a good video and we've done a video
on it and it's not too much more to talk
about this time so why I can ask Isaac
what's your favorite video game hmm
I mean it changes over the years I
suppose Alpha Centauri was one of my
favorite video games populace way back
in the day on Super Nintendo was a very
big favorite of mine Sim City Hall so
way back in the day I've been playing a
lot of Sydney over a little it's oblate
but it varies you know I get interested
in the game and it either gets boring to
you or becomes a class
givers every so often sadly I don't have
much time to play video games anymore
life's been busy Duncan would I asked
would you consider doing a video on
possible government structures on the
future that's always a tricky one
because I don't like to bring politics
into the channel
I don't mind raising the points that
people can be asking themselves a
question on but like we had ubi
universal basic income as one of us was
doing well on a poll up on patreon got
that long back and I was kind of keeping
my fingers crossed that wouldn't come in
number one it didn't just because well
that would be a that's a topic to
certainly discuss in terms of
post-scarcity civilizations or
automation it's just such a charged
topic right now that's hard to get you
to cover it and folks who are to be
coming in either with a either they've
already liked or they already hate it
and I don't really like to kid topics
where people have a preset viewpoint on
it and I don't like to try to say which
view I have on something like that you
know it's more of a let's look at the
pros and cons of this basic theory and
think about it if you coming up with all
good or all bad you're probably not
thinking through enough look at the ups
look at the downs and maybe we might do
that with possible government structures
of the future but if we want to do
something that I'd more like how would
you want a democracy a cost you know a
hundred stall systems without fashion
eye communication is something I thought
even possible all right let's go ahead
and go to break real quick and we'll see
in a couple of minutes so we're going to
take a quick break so everyone myself
included can grab a drink and a snack
and we'll do a few updates and
announcements while we're taking this
pause it's also a great chance to get
some questions in for the second half of
all show today
first up you've probably noticed we've
had some extra episodes of late mostly
in our alien civilization series and if
you're curious I'm plenty of try to make
sure we have at least five episodes each
month from this point on plus our live
stream as opposed to our usual four
month or five a month if it happens to
have five Thursdays in it in general
that extra episode or episodes will be
coming out forced on nebula our
streaming service as an early release
then come out on YouTube and our other
locations like SoundCloud and iTunes a
couple months later most of our content
our nebula will be all Eva Lisa's but we
also have some nebula exclusive
such our new coexistence with alien
series which are not intended to be
broadcast on YouTube for the foreseeable
future
same as our audio only content that's
exclusive to SoundCloud in iTunes our
regular Thursday episodes will of course
continue to premiere on YouTube the
bonus episodes from olio the sheer war
normally done on short notice if the
mood took me and I had some free time
and the entire nebula project is
essentially an experiment though one
doing very well and we had a soldier
nepo so production to help that out and
to make sure there was some content made
just for it so folks didn't feel like it
was just for all evil ESA's at the same
time it was important to me that none
that came at the expense of quantity or
quality of our regular weekly show and
took me a few months of using it to
figure out how best to do that at least
for now
speaking of quantity and quality I want
to take a quick moment to thank our
editing and graphics volunteers on the
show those editors have been
instrumental in permitting me to
increase episode outputs and in my
opinion quality has improved a lot
thanks to them - and video quality even
more so thanks to the folks that
volunteer time animating for the show we
mostly use stock footage but many of
things we discuss have few quality
images or animations showing them and
often none at all and there was many
topics we haven't been able to do
episodes for it just because I felt they
needed visuals but none existed and some
of those have gotten done the last
couple of years because of those
animators volunteering their time and
they don't get thanked enough especially
as analytics show only about half the
audience sticks around for the credit
more at the end of the episodes if
you're interested in volunteering your
time incidentally and have some
experience with graphics and animation
I'm always grateful for help and
especially with that and I occasionally
get messaged by folks who wonder what
the process is for doing that and it's
basically just to send me a note saying
you want a volunteer
I'm usually easiest to reach on my
Facebook page or at the channel email
Issac althought YouTube at Chimayo com
that's UT ube incidentally the same
pretty much applies to modeling on any
of our groups though in that case it's
best just message one of the admins as
while I frequent our social media a lot
to chat I try not to micromanage
administrating that
once again I'd like to thank all those
volunteers for their time and for their
friendship too and thanks everyone for
showing up today with that said let's
get back to the show
animal vac free container I asked how do
you imagine future architecture being
like like saying an oni or cylinder
would you have individual housing like
depicted in artist depictions or a
common area and military like barracks
you know try to predict architectural is
not much easier and try to predict
fashion in architecture there's usually
I can with mister there's a approach to
architecture that says that that beauty
follows function basically when you make
that looks nice if it looks if it walks
then people think it looks good looking
but even then trying to actually predict
what architecture will look like is so
hard it cuz as doing what people find
Pleasant at a time for as if you a
civilization that was made up completely
of uploaded minds then only type of
actual architecture you expect to see is
gigantic computer stacks the supporting
facility is and then whatever own that
nature preserves they felt like keeping
around alternately if everybody was
living inside clone you know big tanks
and vats matrix tower to watch vo and
live in V all then you'd expect they
probably go for a very concentrated set
to although on the same hand they might
go for a very distributed one because
they don't mind a lifetime if it was
laying Android vulnerability because you
think about it if you got a bunch of
people crammed into tanks that's a very
vulnerable location like a warehouse
they can blow up full of people we are
doing episode life on board
no neo cylinder that was a most recent
poll we know that should be coming out
in late January I think that's the last
episode January and probably try to look
at a little bit more they or I think
though there might be I mean we depend
on what the O'Neill's phone was like if
people going for suburban happiness they
might be content to spread out to set
that nobody else wind up like that they
might go rule and basically you have a
house inside a a nature preserve and lot
of that depends on how much your
animation is to build the stuff well you
might be more gone parks and city kinda
set up inside one way all your you know
food productions done in your space foam
is outside of the thing because you knew
that was much cheaper you know it
doesn't require nearly as much
structural strength support we're done
and see etc to do a hydroponics for
mister place where people live you might
have individual houses that had airlocks
and basements and a cracked
is uh homeless us like a life pod or you
might have large you know habitation
stacks will everybody lid inside those
and those were secondarily sealed off so
there was a depressurization to the
whole like a cast traffic one from an
explosion that everyone be safe inside
there until the pay will be done and
it's kind of hard to say but we'll look
at that more and life on board and when
you're so annoying in January once I
write the script up you Jenna Dennis ass
with Space Exploration do you think new
jobs and areas of study will emerge oh
sure
you know xenobiology would be the most
obvious one I think we were just talking
on the break about the new coexistence
with alien series and the force episode
that is a no psychology we don't have
the aliens by now do psychology on but
that would be a big one if he ever
encountered them Zeno botany and yeah we
could say that you know Zeno or
something other opposing would never be
an expert on all the various out in the
other alien life's all which we much
different than any given life on here on
earth was for each other and even now
people specialize quite a lot so you
probably wouldn't be you might get a
degree in I don't think you actually
ever get a degree in something like xeno
psychology more likely get a degree in
psychology of Syrians or something like
that or of our dope aliens or Ryan's
saying for money you'd be getting your
specialization in motion agricultural
because they really won't be that much
overlap that kind would be very
different than where there was an
overlap it would probably applicable
earth to so its asked new jobs there
there's so many asteroid mine or space
Habitat ReStore posts new cleans toilets
on space station that won't use robots
for it's a across the board if people
are they are you have a growing economy
leo I would think Eden in case season a
DSS wouldn't time-dilation be a huge
thing for space travelers yes at least
for those moving at relativistic speeds
we shouldn't assume space travelers
would always be moving at relativistic
speeds much in interplanetary context
you rarely even get to point one C and
probably not even that fast as our solar
system and the relativistic dilation for
that is enough that if you were doing a
lot you need to have something coming in
correct
clocks but you'd probably do
automatically with computer the people
themselves would barely even notice the
time dilation of that it grows very
quickly you had to get up to over half
the speed of light before time slows
down to half its corn speed and I don't
know if you'd ever really build ships
like that other than for intergalactic
colonization as to something would be
like losing a tenth of your time really
or only you know you you experienced one
minute for every 10 minutes the past you
have to be up to what 99.95% us realize
something like that for that would
happen and I don't know he would ever do
that even for intergalactic travel so it
could be an issue though the thing isn't
so much would time dilation mean issue
is what happens with all that time that
you're spending traveling between places
where you know that last time you when
the system was a couple of centuries ago
and everything about that in this kind
of context civilization changed a lot
faster than used to but if I were to
sail a ship away from 18th century
England to say Alpha Centauri and come
back when I get back to my trip I don't
think you know London of 1800 looks very
much like London of 2019 I don't think
that New York of 1800 looks at all like
New York of 2019 so there will be that
kind of effect on those things and we'll
be looking at more in our last episode
for the year into a stubble
civilizations in time which is we
designed of doing the time-traveling
sort after that those because that will
factor into and we'll talk about some of
those issues in that episode those two
episodes I should say mm-hmm generics
love ass interesting name are there any
tropes in science fiction that just
completely ruin a story for you if so
why
you know tropes in cliches because this
for a reason um most of the time they
are very good ones to have in there but
it's it's not so much what trope they're
using or what cliche they're using it's
how they use it
I'll give you example a very common one
in in fiction is to use a young farm boy
who gets a sword and is actually a
prince or something like that and he'll
typically meet somebody suggests a man
or women a Gandalf like figure or a Tom
male and if you know Robert Jordans
material who knows a lot more about the
world and the purpose of that cliche
to have somebody who knows nothing about
the world eg the foam boy will adopt a
rural area and have someone who knows an
awful lot about the ward who is going to
be talking about it because of course
that's not talking to that character
about it it's talking to you the
audience about it so if here's a more
natural way to do exposition on that
ward so that's an example of a cliche
that is good to including the most
stories and why we see that so much mmm
generally I don't like straw man's or
overly simplified villains in in fiction
and you know Stassi I like nothing but
gray and black morality and stories but
I generally before a three-dimensional
you know character was including the bad
guys and I would like plots that are
actually consistent but again that has
nothing but cliches you're using what
tropes you're using that is what this
example is way out there there was
something way overused for instance like
zombies that's people so sub-genre at
this point or vampires you know or the
cowboy western-style science fiction
where they lay in on a very Pioneer
Award and they all walk around with
laser pistols on your hips and say that
can be kind of old but they'll troops
for a reason and I see them shaken up
but a lot of times the cliches make for
so the best stories anyway but if you're
doing writing don't hesitate to use a
cliche just be careful how you use the
cliche sooth and scientists asks what
you think housing a space that habitats
will be like mansions apartments that
kind of goes back to where we say with
erroneous own doors that probably vary a
lot you know it's a thing we say about
the future on these is for say what
would be like living inside Dyson's for
more what kind of cultures were more
don't say I don't know and what I
usually mean by that is besides feta I
generally don't know is that I would
expect it'd be pretty much everything in
play if it was sane international it's
likely it exists somewhere and it
doesn't be all that scene
internationally though because you live
in a very big civilization you can have
temporary societies so always in a state
of collapse and if you're in a
post-scarcity civilization your
ideologies or life poaches do not
actually have to be all that practical
to operate so you'd expect to see almost
everything and I think the same would
apply for things like how's your fashion
but it just kinda depends on what cop
lifestyle person enjoys living I'm a
rural kid I I think of myself and living
in the
for the imax i live in a village of less
than 2,000 people I have to drive almost
a mile to see a horse and yet they you
know for those people that would be very
rural so to me the idea of living in you
know kind of a classic skyscraper not
really a pleasant idea
not bad I've been inside them they're
beautiful to look around at but not my
ideal on the other hand somebody who's
very used to that and before that might
find my general idea of having a cabin
in the woods as horrifying you know its
defensive what a person's tastes all and
those tastes will mutate with time for
us but at the same time you'd expect to
see a wider divulgence pop up with them
too
Gen X asks what's the most sci-fi movie
you have seen in regards to totally
messing up science there are so many I
hate to pick on folks they're the
raspberry awards almost the windows for
those for science fiction other ones um
planet 9 from out of space was one of
those movies are so so bad it's good
it's a good example of that classic if
you want to say classic from the 50s or
60s battle for your authors and toys
they bad like that
let's see you know if you pick on
science fiction movies for how badly
they mess up the science you're you're
gonna be down to like 1 out of 20 movies
maybe and most of those because they
don't even cover cover yet you pick on
Star Wars for its science act that's
that's probably a waste of time
hmm once we were just really bad yeah
it's not a movie I was thinking of the
twin dilemma it's the first episode of
Doctor Who's sixth doctor Colin Colin
Baker not that's how he not Colin Baker
I can't was icing at the moment but
doctor number six and they know they had
they were trying to move plants around
and they oh they basically bashed the
entire concept of Newtonian mechanics
congrat he not a great episode of that
show
let's see although one tries not to
focus too much on the science and Doctor
Who classic all new stuff either Geo in
Houston ass so in the past two years we
have seen two interstellar objects what
are the chances that we are headed in a
comet in we are headed in the comet
interstellar cloud headed into we do
actually have to be at the edge of the
local bubble the the group of stars that
we kind of emerged together with font
with and there was always having two
other folks and you would expect to see
more such objects when you're passing
through somebody else but I don't think
that we should assume that this is a
typical amount of stuff we need to get a
better idea how often the ejections take
place from solar systems and if we can
then we can go ahead and map out what
the probability of one passed through
our system is right now well you hear my
things like I move on we were all this
new one don't think of that as a weird
new anomaly you think of that is
something that we're finally good enough
at detecting stuff to be able to see I
mean quite probably you know it's a good
coincidence it moves closer son but I
would be surprised if hundreds of social
objects weren't moving to the outer
system with the Kuiper belt you know in
a given lifetime we just see the ones to
get really close to Sun or big enough
for us to notice them if we happen to be
looking in their direction at a time so
um again we're getting better at
detecting stuff and that's that's more
or less the reason why I was seeing
these objects whether or not there be an
uptick in something like that when I say
we're moving into a new area of the
galaxy or I've moved out of a previous
one these are things I have that would
you know not quite geological but very
long time lines along with the human
civilization as a role and so you it's
not only a new huge thing that's
happening right now
od g k1 s e 30:19 x can you do an
episode on a future land transportation
yeah I shouldn't even say about was just
near that call that I came in what's
called the one that Tesla made that Elon
must bust up at the glass metal ball hmm
what would we be driving I one would
guess that we probably see a convulsion
over or depending on how electricity
works if you get better batteries I'm
significantly better batteries then you
probably expect to see either in terms
of how long we can charge them up or how
densely we can store power in them or
how efficiently you can transfer them
into them you probably start see
electric cars on the other hand I guess
something like fusion to our cheap cheap
fusion you probably actually continue to
see something I gasoline being use
because you could then suck the stuff
out yo and make it
dead and came across a very nice type of
power supply so in terms of what we'd
actually be driving around though I'd be
kind of curious what the default layout
would become most vehicles in a
civilization where automated call with
self-driving cars had been become the
norm would you start seeing more of a
limousine like set up but my ass that
front cockpit which is she selling more
like a you know comfortable room that
you just got into and then dingy when
you arrive to your destination
they are probably gonna be a lot of
changes in how things are set up in
terms of your basic vehicle outlay and
times to come and I mean we see that
assembly when I was a kid you you at the
station wagons starting to go out of out
of style and favor with a minivan and
then you're the SUV pop up not long
after that it's kind of a place in that
and so you get these kind of evolving
changes already but something like
self-driving car was all things that
will change around the power supply for
the engine that's gonna be the big ones
I think we'd have problems anticipate
what those would look like though MMX
asks how could politics effectively
continue in O'Neill so knows with
populations of billions and trillions as
a rule and only Ozona wouldn't have a
population of a billion people I mean
you could potentially cram that many
people into one if you're bringing your
food in from elsewhere but to make a
single habitat that was of that kind of
scale you'd be looking at some disease
or if it was no need or someone was
radius with something like at a populace
which will have to look at some time
near future or you'd be looking at
something you know connected you know
collection of them were several them
would kind of attach to a thin network
or you'd be looking at something with a
much stronger wider hole like a bishop
ring or McKendree cylinder as to how
that would affect populations if we're
talking about like unborn individual one
and your default only also know what
probably something like a county
government these days where you had
somewhere between ten thousand to a
million people to be inside one whereas
these you could easily of course have
collections of those we are like
years100 all your cylinders in this new
state we'll call it space topia so the
54 state is space topia and it has
composed of 100 only or so indoors
either effective your county governments
and of course you might have expanded
what time is that there was a nation of
you know a hundred such states and of
course you have to keep scaling it up
because you're going to eventually start
hitting billions and trillions of people
but that would probably be your your
local state federal have you know
Confederation type of setup would be
along those lines what is the average
habitat size and that becomes CAV your
your median that things would flow
around for that subdivision and inside
that you might have you know individual
bits to a county government for instance
he always spoken up and we think we have
27 townships in Ashtabula and seven
villages and three cities and those
eachother own government in different
types of governments and so you could
see stuff like that inside Antonio saw
one or two so it just depends on what
kind of setup people feel like going
with that might be kind of interesting
to see a but I'm it might be cowboy for
folks to I happen to find that sort of
thing very fascinating but I'm sure most
people to Kimberly Lewis ass Isaac what
are your thoughts on modern future
resource scarcity of important
industrial materials like India more
helium how we solve these and future
George's thinking about meant say
iridium but maybe not within the metals
of course that's just find a place
that's got a fair amount of them in the
asteroid belt or on the moon and mined
them up my oath has way more these
things but it'll be really deep down we
have problems getting access to you
although that's our episode for three
weeks from now accessing your Scott in
mid-december and um helium though is
more problematic because the stuff is
incredibly plentiful it's just not
plentiful neo bhai there's the Sun and
then your next nearest place which kind
of holiday get access to would be the
gas giants and there was a kind of hard
to access to but as you get further out
in the solar system you start finding it
collects up on places where it does not
have really deep gravity wells so since
you're probably not gonna be in a rush
to get that stuff back you know helium
doesn't spoil and you can build tanks or
hold it pretty well
you probably actually see your helium
mining taking place out and make the
Kuiper belt originally and then moving
in aboard then that just depends on how
good you are at scooping off of the gas
giants or after certain to and how much
were you need and
of questions you might have helium as a
byproduct of a fusion economy where it's
kind of a waste product - Thank You
Romeo is the appointing technology where
monetary transactions become more of a
burden than simply providing free access
to things
hmm you very rarely buy air but there is
actually still a market for you and the
fact that we don't really buy your that
much doesn't mean that nobody provides
you know we basically are areas of free
access but you can buy for special
purposes like scuba tanks so or your
oxygen for breathing for folks who have
your lung problems and things like that
and the fact that that is under that
kind of a post-scarcity setup doesn't
mean that there was no economy that
isn't scales and we have things we buy
all the time right now adays depending
on what you're doing you can have a lot
of things that are still scarce even in
a post-scarcity economy and often
post-scarcity economy would only be a
temporary state there's these
differences we say post-scarcity do you
mean to use virtually a scarcity for
stuff or is just bit a very wealthy and
abundant society for since you could
have a vast amount of post-scarcity
civilization time in the solar system as
our population grows but at some point
it does actually reach a point you gotta
start saying you can only have so much
of this well it's like this amount of
sunlight and then how you go about mmm
providing access that can't depends on
the cultural on mowers you might buy
oxygen for instance oh the moon you
might buy a rail mmm there's so many if
you'll follow me on one of those places
there very little nitrogen you need
nitrogen you pump into buying that
you're on earth it's free
well that Ohio water was cheapest dog
because we live by next to the great
lake it's not where you big issue even
for farming it's very rarely an issue
here you're down to California or the
Southwest obviously a bit of a different
story and of course people still buy
bottled water or they or two so it was
really kind of careful with assuming
technology is gonna suddenly end given
economic system or scarcity issue
because that's generally enough and how
it walks out and when it does it's
usually just that one thing that
suddenly don't cheap to the point of you
know fuel I track yen long-distance
phone calls when I was a kid we had
long-distance phone calls and now we
don't have long-distance phone calls
anymore because that's not a scarce item
anymore
they Billy to send a message back and
forth across to plants very cheap so
really we still pay for that surface but
we pay for it differently
usually mm-hmm and we've still got time
for some more questions but I'm not
seeing any up at the moment I see if I
can find some of the chat window
capital H ass is the only way to do
stall lifting some like process on gas
Cheyenne so is your mining Neptune
episode see what Mars had problems doing
that let's go Italy closest thing to it
can we do stall if T on gas giants or
will be telling more like what we do
with mining Neptune
the thing about a gas giant is well we
should start what saying Scala teen is
done by basically one one process there
are two advantage to it forced and
install like ours it's pretty convective
so you can not only strip off the
material that's near the top but the
stuff scarcely bubbling around your
heavier elements do tend like to go
towards the center but they bubble up
it's it's a bubbling stewpot right and
so you can scoop metals out of them not
just hydrogen or helium second it's got
a huge gravity well but you have a
gigantic power supply right there from
that Sun that's why I start lifting if
we can get walking it would be a very
effective way of getting resources is
because it's where 99% of our sorry 98
percent of our solar system's resource
so adds and it's where the gigantic
power supply is at for lifting those
resource away something like Jupiter if
you don't have fusion you have a problem
point material if it's same for Neptune
because you you need to have you need to
have power supply to get these things
out of those gravity wells and has to be
cheaper than the other sources for the
gas giants there's a lot of ways we'll
move material from them but it's
questions mostly what method are using
and what are using for power and it
might be the Sun one way you can do star
lifting for something like Jupiter would
be to send it a gigantic Power Beam or
flat-out laser from the Sun to Jim
Jupiter will heat it up and blow
material off it seemed as we do with
stall it in or to power whatever it is
that you're using to run a thing like
the Neptunian chainsaw we discussed in
colonizing neptune and that's one of
those things where those would usually
be the last things you access but not
necessarily
like pathology might be something you
started very early on just because it
turned out to be more economical for
instance which under some circumstances
it might be probe approver asks is there
a phenomenon which would threaten or
damage a Dyson Sphere well a Dyson
Sphere certainly but a Dyson swarm which
I assume you mean is context those are
actually a lot tougher than people would
tend to think it's very hard to just
eliminate wando's and it's also very
hard to eliminate one in a way that
would allow you to do that without a
letter attributable strike
preemptive strikes for strike those are
only a good idea where you can either
completely eliminate the ability to
retaliate or it can almost do so so that
you're not being you know crippled
yourself and every time try to think
about way to destroy one with the
technology that's relatively unpalatable
ization I can never quite find a way
that you could do that without getting
struck back but they are vulnerable to
things like a massive Kessler debris
some massive Kessler syndrome debris of
attack that would be a solar system wide
not the easiest thing that won't do but
yeah you can damage one you could set
the stall off this is a good example I
mentioned Dennis e Taylor or in one of
his books there's a without being too
spoiler tastic about it they managed to
cause a supernova by having to you know
Neil planet-sized objects slam into the
poles of a star simultaneously and
compress it so the supernovas and that's
a that's a trick you could use do
something like that that we very hard to
block I mean it's kinda like we've
discussed in weaponizing black holes you
could do things like that potentially
set a style off even then though you
probably would not get the entire
civilization even though you think a
supernova wow that would wipe out a
solar system well not so much you know I
guess if all Sun went supernova
Jupiter would still be around afterwards
male Suns not massive not naturally go
supernova and so a classic supernova
would not get rid of something like all
Jupiter and own some dust doesn't have
that much energy and if you talk about
the habitats and the Kuiper belt that
will bear you don't know a mile of ice
yeah they'd still be around so you could
easily bunk up the ability to strike
back at you and of course it's nice beer
to blow your enemy up
but usually the thing preventing you
from doing that if you really don't like
them is that they're going to blow you
up a baton so you know weapons you could
use to take out a Dyson swarm but unless
you can do it in a way that prevents
them from between the favour that they
did I become very many of those that
would seem to allow that option which
will go into the following pair last
question of you know do people not build
these things so that when we do
centralized and possibly but it doesn't
really seem like that would be enough to
prevent that from from some people from
building that SAP Yacht asks if the
Hyperloop cannot happen because the cost
of having everything depressurized that
I would usually be a make thing cheaper
design thing but uh what about having
the air in the loop move in the
direction of the Hyperloop train it
would reduce the trains air friction
even though there would be friction
between the air and the tunnel walls if
the energy is cheap enough then the man
is high-speed transport Rises do you
think there's a fairly good chance of
happening now wind tunnels we get those
inside our tunnels right now when we
build these you build a tunnel through a
mountain or city already significant
problem that's just being caused by the
local wind of you know maybe 10 50 miles
now or the vehicles themselves media
through there is friction when you have
wind going down in the material when you
have a fluid in fluid dynamics do some
limit as to how fast you can pump fluids
to a pipe you start trying to bring
those fluids up to supersonic speeds
which is the idea behind something like
a Hyperloop is to move these things at
supersonic speeds you're talking in some
very severe issues you're effectively
inside a tor baton at that point in time
like on jet it's doable but I mean I
think that that just in general the
amount of strain and stress should be
putting on a thing would be way way more
and the energy cost for keeping that
arrow moving way way more than to
depressurize it and I'm not sure why why
you would be able to depressurize one of
these tubes is working in mind of all
the Hyperloop has a number like forget
about the Hyperloop for a moment a
vacuum train or in your vacuum train the
Hyperloop is an example of a new vacuum
train this is not a new concept they
have some engineering issues but there
are issues in terms of being
economically effective and you know not
having to over engineered to the point
becomes too expensive
I've heard a lot of objections the
Hyperloop that
were based on nonsense even from
reputable figures or semi reputable
figures and then there are some
legitimate objections to but yes we can
depressurize a tube we also over
pressurize them - that's me again we'll
be mother's examples we just want to get
better at your actual engineering in
terms of you know using the trying to
keep it cheap that's the big thing how
do you make this thing cheap and that's
one of those things where to see whether
ever gets engineer to do that and you
have to face off against the idea that
these kind of bullet train setup so good
for when you're trying to move people
between two cities they're not so good
for what you might call more of a rural
road environments and they're not very
good if you're doing a lot of a remote
walk so you've got a high caste voices
and potentially dropping need in some
places to actually have such thing and
so they'll get built when the cost well
when the supply and demand equal outs
we'll put it that way hopefully that
would be something we could see in our
lifetimes but I think we allow them for
it's more than you know speculative or
one a few locations but that was true
for normal trains to levy honky-ass
are there any current materials that
humanity has developed that have grabbed
your attention hmm I'd say the one that
really grabbed my attention of us was
carbon nanotubes and graphene probably
not too surprising considering that
we've that we've got a big fondness of
rotini habitats and making structures on
this channel things that let us build
really big ones are always a favorite I
like only also knows but my ideal
routine habitat is well not quite the
ring war that really like to build
what's called a bish not a bishop ring
and that too but and all banks orbital
which is one way or it's about a 1.7
kilometers in either radius or diameter
and has a natural and Sun daylight cycle
and it's you know several hundred
dollars worth of area and you don't need
an internal lighting for that you just
calculate above an angle so the Sun
naturally by itself on a 24-hour
schedule um and you can't build
something like that with graphene for
instance but the stronger material is I
like them not so much because I find
them all that interesting themselves I
find these we build out of them rather
interesting okay we'll go ahead and wrap
up idea for the day and
I'm sure everyone's seen the schedule as
we've been going along this week on
Thursday we'll have gods and monsters
spaces Lovecraft envisioned it and then
we'll start to assemble off with welcome
to the galactic community and we'll see
you on Thursday so that wraps up today's
livestream Q&A if you had a question we
didn't get to or another came to mind
feel free to put that in the comments on
the video and it'll be back later this
evening to answer them you can also pop
in to our Facebook group science and
futurism with Isaac alpha to discuss
topics with like-minded individuals or
any of our other forums thanks again for
joining us today and we'll see you
Thursday
you
