good afternoon everyone and welcome to
the sfia monthly live stream q a
we'll get started in just a moment but
go ahead and start getting your
questions in the chat window so our
materials can start relaying those
tubing as soon as we start please try to
keep the questions concise and watch
your spelling and try to be polite to
others in the chat we usually go for
about an hour so you probably want to
grab a drink and a snack that will take
a break about halfway through too with
all that said welcome and let's get
started
good afternoon everyone and welcome to
science and Futures with Isaac Arthur
our monthly live stream q a and as usual
I'm joined by my lovely wife and cos
Sarah Fowler author who will be reading
your questions off from the chat and I
believe Cindy will be joined today help
moderate please get your questions in
German as need a fashion as possible
because I think he's the only one today
this again is a bit of a holiday setting
with the choice to do it the usual last
Sunday that was Christmas day or this
weekend which is New Year's Eve and this
seemed like a better choice so with all
that said let's get started well we are
apparently throwing people off by the
day because uh Albert Jackson said wait
is this Sunday it's Saturday are you
sure yeah
it is the last day of the old year and
we are getting ready to send it off with
the final live stream of 2022 in 2022.
I won't miss it either that much it
wasn't it wasn't a bad year it was a
very hectic year very hectic you so
that's true we're our New Year's
resolution is to be much more organized
and
strategic in the coming year yeah I'm
usually pretty organized but this year
it's been a little bit hard to keep up
with that so
are you ready for the first question all
right
um from Rihanna and Sullivan are there
any programs where you can input Planet
parameters and it will simulate what the
condition of the surface would be based
on weather and temperature and things
like that or at least give some sort of
descriptions
I mean to a degree there was a number of
game softwares to do things along those
lines I think even solos has a function
like that you know there's more space
based but uh by and large nothing I
really call very accurate just because
we don't have that data yet
um I I'm not certain but I think I would
say that the cool Awards lab was looking
at possibly doing something like that
but that might be me confusing
conversation so
um but there's a lot of options for
doing that in the future however it's
actually having this really accurate we
need more data so we don't have much to
work off of yet it does sound like a
cool idea though oh yeah absolutely and
we well
um this was uh the second week uh that a
long time cover artist Jacob Greg was
finally been on an extended vacation and
uh first he sent me was uh a big long
list of four thousand bits of AI
generated already done on Landscaping so
you think I'm on alien landscapes in
space they were gorgeous and I'm
thinking I'm wondering if I should give
it a try too though I don't think I do
it as well as Jacob would but we might
do an episode on AI art in addition to a
normal ones because that's kind of it
seems like a fun thing to do at the last
minute that does sound fun Dave Tucker
actually has an episode suggestion for
you he says hi Isaac Happy New Year I
was wondering if you could make a video
about Zeno compatibility a potential
sequel to multi-species cohabitat
cohabitation but what are the real
chances that this can happen if at all I
mean I wouldn't mind you another episode
on that though that falls into like with
the Union civilization series is that I
don't like to do episodes on that more
than you know maybe
maybe five or six a year because either
way like 60 episodes it is always a bit
of a softer topic that's not too highly
sciency so there was endless sci-fi
alien tropes we could play with but as
much as I could certainly revisit that
topic and might do so because I remember
how long ago the episode was and there
was something a lot more to say but I
might do too many Alien civs episodes in
uh you know some period of time
um
let's see realism wise could you have uh
an alien husband or wife and have
children with them uh and of course the
question is forced is is it even vaguely
possible to make sense you know would
you ever expect to be cost compatibility
it's like they are less related to you
than oak tree is is the idea they are
it's not really going to work out very
well
um but vanito science in the mix the
game does change a lot especially in
certain things like Star Trek you say
well you got Spock the half human half
High you know uh Vulcan hybrid yeah
Deanna Troy half human half beta Zed but
then they have an episode that says oh
well almost all the humanoid race in the
Galaxy were seated by the same alien
life form in the uh I think it was the
episode was called The Pursuit and like
one of the later seasons of Next
Generation but uh not very realistic at
all to be honest but with technology all
sorts of things can be made possible you
just kind of use brute force uh Gene
hacking get it done
girchen is Nick says hi Isaac recently
you told us about getting homeschooled
we don't know about this in the
Netherlands and as I'm a teacher I am
very curious about it
um ironically my wife can probably
answer the question for you better
because she did her entire education
that way and helped with her younger
siblings I did homeschooling from most
of six on through 12 though that was
only like four years uh we skipped me a
couple grades in the middle of that
um
and I did go back briefly for ninth
grade for a while but uh everyone's
different you know different experience
with it when I was doing it in the the
early 90s it was not a very formal
system in Ohio and I got tested maybe
one saw twice I mean the whole time and
then just act is not a college uh I
think I might have been a low priority
Target because they knew I was going to
college track already but uh you know it
was different for a lot of different
people every state does differently but
the basic idea is that you do your
schooling at home with your parents or
some other teacher maybe a tutor usually
your parents and they have to these days
they always have to have you pass
certain basic parameters so they like
there's testing to do standards yeah
but it's largely parent-directed
education or
um individual tutor if the parent
chooses to hire one yeah yeah and I mean
that's gonna vary a lot there's a lot of
programs to do a little bit differently
and again it's so valuable by state that
totally give you a a standard price on
it that's how it is in Ohio you know
um go to different state different rules
and some places for instance you have to
have a college degree to actually do it
other places it's you know much more
what the parents you know want to do is
more important than whether they hit
certain qualifications and it does vary
a lot but basically I'd say what I like
about the most is because almost all
one-on-one teaching or you know small
small group teaching it's faster you you
don't have to spend hours a day doing it
in fact I pretty much got handed a
textbook and told to go alone and that
was it and mine was much better in the
sense that it was more experiential
learning so uh basically I've owned a
business since I was 11 years old and
had the opportunity to run it learn from
it tweak it and expand and that is one
of the freedoms that you have when
you're not stuck in a school building
specifically for six or eight hours a
day
I think not not pitch and people on this
so I'd say every student should be
homeschooled to some degree or another
because the parents you know if you want
your kid to do good in school you gotta
do that at home with them too so uh
whether or not you're doing in the
school as well I can never think you can
get too much education but
um let's see speaking of which very
proud of our two oldest children for
having masses of reading yes for having
mastered the art of reading over the
holidays working with Mom
and our son has now read eight books
stories sorry and our daughter has read
five so they are getting very proficient
from only being able to sound words out
to being able to actually read very
exciting well uh for context anyone who
didn't catch that we last live stream
was the first live stream we've done
right after adopting kids uh well
technically the foster kids for a few
months but adopting three kids that are
siblings ages six five and four and uh
we had just gotten them in the house a
couple days we did the last live stream
this is much caramel Nelly now so uh and
uh they are quite smart cute we're not
allowed to say their names that's all so
they are boy one girl and boy two and
then this day has the age range on them
boy go boy and we're not allowed to show
photographs of them yet until they're
formally adopted which will probably be
it could be some more time but late
spring at the very early sets up so a
very interesting experience and keeping
us on toes and uh I I'm surprised my
hair has an auto turned gray in the
meantime but it's working its way there
I was gonna say maybe your beard is a
little more gray but I think the top is
still darker maybe it just helps that I
cut the tips off that's true yeah I
always hear a cup then the covet hit and
it's like well okay my wife can cut my
hair now that's that's some grateful for
so the next question here is from Lube
Brown he says when might we be able to
discern the Twist and distribution of
chiral molecules in an exoplanet's
atmosphere such as life science detected
Captain moment wanted I think the issue
is almost any bio detection is what's
the dwell time on it
um you know one of the things we like
about say veg dwarf systems is they tend
to be really ulo one ultraviolet light
we have a episode coming to discuss that
in a little bit more detail in about a
month hi Sean well it's a hydrogen ocean
Wards but um around veg Waters that's
ultraviolet so it's going to be a longer
dwell time a lot of organic molecules
and most things don't farewell under UV
light organic molecules in particular so
um if they have language well time or if
all of the product when it gets
dissolved has a long dwell time which
some do that becomes without you can see
it I don't off the top of my head no
what those would be for very many things
though besides like methane or ammonia
those are the ones we usually be you
know all Baseline ones but I would tend
to think almost anything much more
complicated would be very hard to
actually get them in there very long my
wife is glaring at me that I'm not lucky
at the camera much because actually she
sits behind the camera directly at me so
stay in your heart right now so well if
you stay off in space while you're
talking people start slagging you're not
paying attention I usually like stop
looking at people when I'm actually
talking though because I'm trying to
think of an answer as opposed to stay at
their face so I hope that answers the
question which I've now forgotten
very bad moving on you have a super chat
here from crossover Maniac How could a
K2 civilization support a population of
10 to the 23rd power when we average 2
kilowatts of power per person now
without space travel and megastructure
construction
well I think we usually you I mean I I
usually just put it somewhere around 10
to the 18th through 10th or 20th
um as the population there so that's
that's you know that's five orders
imagine on the bottom end of that 10 to
20 people would be
a hundred billion trillion and that
would be the same as trying to support
on Earth the equivalent of
uh through this in my head now
you know I I think we'll assuming it's
about a trillion people for the plan so
we have to calculate I think it's
getting that one but it is doable
um if you have enough wattage on that
because the sun puts off what 4 times 10
to 26 watts and then 10 23rd so yeah
three three kilowatts per person four
kilowatts per person 3.86 kilowatts per
person I think they just did that to see
how specific you would be in your math
probably not but so like so four
kilowatts of course and that's doable
because I think we worked out one time
that you could get photosynthesis very
active like hydroponic photosynthesis on
uh like you as low as two kilowatts well
if you were tilling every last Photon
coming out the plans to hit them and
engage in actual photosynthesis as
opposed to infrared or or you know
anything that's not useful bouncing your
algae absorbed and then of course on the
other side of that there's always the
dismemberment option you know it sounds
a little weird but you actually burn
less calories if you go miss your arms
and legs
um so we could do things like cyborg you
up um you know if you just that I had in
a tank I think it's about 15 of your
calories are used by your brain so that
basically like seven times more
population
so there's your option that's been
automated and you can always go more
digital but yeah so you should be able
to do it that's disturbing but true if
somebody said Stefan says I love your
channel it's easy to fall asleep to
after hours of struggling to stay awake
listening to interesting topics while I
sleep gives inspiration for futuristic
dreams like having all of your body
parts amputated and only a head left I
mean
Discerning dream I remember the first
time I actually went around walking
there because I think why when he would
do that was in the house Joe Reynolds
novel which a lot of the war I must say
it was uh the prefect and there was a
place where people had uh had everything
but you know not just their heads but
like all their glands uh store them tuna
they almost amputated them and uh yeah
strange but interesting topic yeah it's
hard to say what people might do in the
future because if you're just a brain of
that
um you know the rest of that stuff is
just in the way potentially and you
might just want a robot body you can
please for an hour or two when you need
to be uh you know up a couple levels in
the real world uh as well up a couple
levels in this one let's go there so
Albert Jackson says good afternoon Isaac
and Sarah a late merry Christmas and a
Happy New Year's Eve having Christmas
recently got me thinking what
season-based holidays might arise on
other planets in our solar system
um
you know that's interesting is probably
not that very many because uh Mercury
would have some interesting ones we'll
come back to book you a moment but Venus
just says that basically that all about
the eel crappy weather uh Sunside and
dark side basically so um and then Mars
is very similar to ours it's just it's a
relatively cold planet with log one than
ours but you saw getting out to the uh
out of plants or the asteroids it's so
long for anything that would be seasonal
this is already the plant of the sun I
don't think you really want to use as a
holiday
on the flip side if you thought about
like the moons around Jupiter that orbit
you know on an order of a few days
usually it depends on them so no less
than one day they could actually do
seasons that were based off things like
that Revel resonances or where they were
relative to Jupiter and the Sun at that
time things like that could potentially
pop up uh you might have a pretty big
deal when it was at time of year when
you are one of the moons of Jupiter got
to see Jupiter opaque the Sun and you
can Eclipse it and that's a very
different experience there because
Jupiter is huge in the sky compared to
what the moon is if you have one of
those you know moves it could be a bit
uh ominous yeah and long you know you're
mostly waiting to open out of it as like
the other way around where the moon just
swings back through you're stuck behind
you before a bit but
hey here's an interesting question from
Timothy keeper he says the term Paradox
is used quite a bit but it seems to more
about the limits of human understanding
to accurately grasp the concept thus
creating a perceived Paradox
um you know that's a very good point
that we raise occasionally episodes to
say if if Paradox really is impossible
if we'll assuming the only definition
for the word paradox is actually
impossible that's pretty much a useless
word you could say that's an impossible
situation you don't need it so for all
purposes not so much for the definition
with what should be in the English
language but what it should be in terms
of all discussions we'd say any
situation that on on heavy examination
you're not just casual but heavy
examination still does not appear to
make sense like I do not believe there
is a paradox between your quantum
mechanics and you know the macroscopic
ward I don't believe they're all
paradoxes there I think that everything
that's going on there is possible and it
actually makes sense and the the
contradictions are simply a lack of all
knowing nonetheless in the meantime we
you know we'll keep with the epr Paradox
and things like that so before we
Paradox CPR paradox orbos paradox which
are sold you know we have these
paradoxes until we get an answer to them
and then they're not a paradoxium Works
do we still keep calling them out of
habits you know so uh that's a hobbit
you did out of habits have you been
hobbiting a lot I gotta start speech
stamping back because oh he went to have
like a two-year break
I thought it was only like a year or no
it's been it's been like a year and a
half I've only been to do it for a few
months though so but uh yeah I'll be
back at that stop the slip oh
what was what was the question you know
oh just Paradox is being real or not oh
yes paradoxes are probably not paradoxes
a random Galactic hitchhiker made it one
minute in advance and was happy to join
the countdown and then he also had a
question do you see a change in
corporate structure and the way they do
business in light of post-scarcity or
more of the same
I don't think that you do business in a
scarce in like
we usually see on the show the context
two two amendments the concept of post
scarcity one uh we say post chaos in the
sense that some desired resource needed
whatever it is is itself easy enough to
get that doesn't really cause you
anxiety now in the sense that's infinite
or the SSA free or Supply just it's so
easy to get your hands on that everybody
Pierce has it as much as they reasonably
would want to have it and then the
second memory to the concept of post
scarcity again for the purpose of
discussing on the show is we say your
post scarcity in certain areas and you
might call it the post geoc you know
situation if anybody has a woman better
sleep in and plenty of food you know and
medicine that's pretty post-scarcity by
modern standards even but certainly to
our ancestors but there's still a lot
more things you could do to that would
still be scales so it's not a question
of how does how do corporations or
things like that work in a skit your
post-scares environment it's how does
somebody walk when doing a product
that's post scarcity and that makes a
little bit easier to exam because we
have that I have three favorite
predictions from my early 20 you know my
teens and early 20s they always said oh
my reminders to be a little bit more
humble about stupid stuff people want
and bottled water was one of those I
never thought that bottled water would
ever take off I was a real kid I was
used to drinking out of a tap now a hoe
was just right out no big problem right
water fountain good enough for me I
never thought bottled water would catch
on if you're curious the other two well
I didn't leave the Mighty Morphing Power
of angels would survive season one and
that was an awful show
I don't know if that's really fair or
not but that's what I thought and I
don't think text messaging was gonna be
popular text message just because you
don't do it even now doesn't mean that
it's not popular now than I used to but
what's what I didn't realize was because
why especially back then you had to tap
the button three times to make it walk
right uh to get one letter it's like
it's like a telegraph it's like doing
Morse code why would you want this as
opposed to video calls and the answer
because it isn't a mystery it's not a
paradox the answer is that a video call
means you'll have to answer it and
people see that you all ruffled we do do
video calls nowadays there's not this
big deal of people being wanted uh
whereas with a text message it might
take you 30 seconds to write the message
that you could have said in five but you
only have to have that 30 seconds of
conversation and that's the key you know
most time when you contact people you
really do not have time to have a long
conversation with them right then or you
don't want them to hear the uncertainty
of your voice or the irritation things
like that it's because of the throttle
bandwidth that text messaging is popular
the flip side bottle is just very easy
to carry around but it is an example of
a post-scarcity commodity I don't know
if there's any place in the water that's
really has Pomsky and drinking water
than a relatively few areas at all you
know crisis hit you know your your
various thought Ward zones and even
those usually have access to fresh water
um some areas limited won't have for
crisis but everybody else has more than
enough drinking model it's effectively
free so why do people pay for it right
and that's because it's relatively cheap
too they like the nice easy Camp you
know portable bottle it's clean right
um post qsd examples like that might be
air people buy oxygen they will suck on
oxygen bottles there's no more post
scarcity item you can get than oxygen
right it's all around maybe a smoggy
city you might want a higher end of that
though but you have examples like that
with any commodity there's going to be
that extra step up there like anybody
can go get pounds of Penny Candy I don't
think it's probably not for a penny
anymore but it gets inflation well it
depends on where you go but yes well I
could get a Tootsie Roll for one penny
when I was a kid and but back then you
could get like the inflation's been up
four times it depends on your taste now
if you're willing going to have tootsie
rolls or Fruit Chews you can still get
them for a penny right but people still
go pay like 10 20 bucks for a
confectionary of a complex one they
could just have their sweet sweet candy
you know in a cheap format instead they
decide to do more so that's where you're
going to the post gear seating with the
commodity like that there's still a
market for it but you have to to do
something that makes it better
preparation uh branding ease of access
that's what you're moving the shift to I
hope that made sense yes okay thank you
household Adventures thank you for your
Super Chat do you have any opinions on
the expanding Earth theory
the expanding your theory correct
no okay I have never heard that one no
well that was curious about now if
somebody wants to like send that on and
you know that I would love to know more
about that I thought we were going to
have a one-word answer and that was
gonna be like wow it might be the first
time since I've been on this program and
you actually had a wonderful last time I
did too well I am shocked Kenyan Moon
says could you arrange an
electromagnetic setup of some sort on a
space habitat such that it creates a
magnetic field capable of doing like the
Earth and protecting us yeah
um this is the critical thing when
people talk about me starting most core
by like drilling a hole in nuclear over
and over again which are probably waste
of Weaponry
um but
um you can make magnets far easier than
with spinning metal we have
electromagnets in our civilization and
we have molten metal uh and we never
really use the one for that purpose
um because a big ball of spinning Mulch
and metal is actually a really bad
magnet it's just that when you're
spinning what's about 10 to 24 kilograms
of molten ion and uranium and stuff
that's very effective as a magnet
compared to one you're gonna put in your
house but it's so much easier or
something like I know Neo 70 was already
spinning to just turned that into an
electromagnet
um you know it's natural spin might be
enough but you could just run according
to fly around it and Bam they're not
your mind then way more powerful than
you would get on a planet too you can
amp that stuff up and I expect most will
have it in fact I suspect Earth will
eventually have an artificial magnetic
field added on to what we have just to
further dampen the the iron radiation
the air up orbits
Nancy Mattis said thank you for your
Super Chat will the world economics in
the next 100 years invest heavily into
space would it benefit all of us
worldwide in any good way
hmm
um
yes
yes and yes though I I should add on to
those not as much as we like
um and I don't want the other show on
the other ones but big maybes and bad
things too I mean for every you know one
day would have a routine habitat that's
our first one that checks like the
gravity on Mars or the moon and see if
you can live like on that and then also
one day someone's gonna put an older
weapons platform up there that people
are reward is going to blow their house
up from space
um and uh both of those things will
probably happen in the next 50 years you
know treaties aside
um
I think that's the key thing there is
will there be a lot more research in the
going space yeah we've spent trillions
on it already you know we talk about
NASA's budget not being as high as we'd
like but now the fun back Inland other
countries we've spent over a trillion
dollars on space exploration research
and uh I went about giving up a more
hacker than that but I think it's a few
trillion at this point and that's uh
that's definitely made a lot of progress
I'd say definitely qualifies a big
investment
I think some other good points here some
of your audience have commented that
text message Gene is also helpful for
some people who are deaf or
um in communicating with uh different
time zones and people on different
schedules so those are also great points
those are great points though I think of
the the key thing out there as well
those are true that's you know not going
to apply the vast majority of Tech Team
I think it usually is having between
people who probably can hear and
probably do live in the same time zone
as you uh although that is certainly a
true point that was made
a question here from Rob Hawk thank you
for your Super Chat Rob how might the
universe bite back if human civilization
started to spread from Galaxy to Galaxy
at a hyper light speed
what was the first part of the question
again how might the universe bite back
um I mean you're assuming a conscious
Universe than some fashion that would
want to bite back at you
um you know you can make a case like we
had that episode recently on the guy
hypothesis where with the Bourgeois
called the media hypothesis there is a
thought that they could have a conscious
world that is actively ceased to kill
off uh more complicated life forms
um and uh I don't really see a good case
for the universal being treated as an
organism
um
they'll be likely to act that way with
any kind of natural coordinated pattern
um if we're talking about alien
civilizations in general I think the
only way they can really buy back at us
if we start expanding really fast was if
they had done so too in which case it's
probably everybody biting each other
instead
um and we've lucked out not being their
Zone but I really think the biggest
thing that would slow down
coordinate expansion would be you
constantly have your own finished
territories breaking your way too it
really doesn't slow down your
colonization if you're not really aiming
for everyone to be unified but it's just
tricky without fashion I travel but I
think you do have fast light or instant
travel you start having constant um
fighting with your fringes at war with
them you know leaving a way to leave and
uh or who's colonizing next space
whereas in the current model it's more
like you know Neolithic tribes going out
and colonizing parts for Content once
they've broken up from each other for a
couple Generations they're not in
contact at all anymore so
um Jeff D thank you for your Super Chat
what does the recent Fusion announcement
actually mean towards usually usable
fusion power I've read articles that say
it was energy positive but others say
that it is still energy negative well
um
boilerplate it is progress
um it is real progress It's very
positive real progress it is a bit
overhyped well I should say a lot of
people discussing you know over High PM
this happens a lot with the fusion ones
um and it's kind of bite back on these
things has there been real progress yes
but now what do we mean by um you know
uh break even
um you know getting them if I zap a
nuclei with a certain amount of energy
and it produces more energy in its
release than I that I zapped it with
that is
technically get more out of it but
that's that's one way to get a little
bit more out of it this is if I blew a
huge laser with something and I only
actually fused seven or eight particles
each week about like you know more
energy out of it than I put in to them
individually you could say that didn't
really Break Even because I threw
billions of jewels of the thing and I
maybe got a million out of it I just
happened to have gotten more into the
ones I put it in and then you can go
well that beameda hit that was only like
one percent of the total power we blew
into that thing
um the the key there is when does it
actually get to the point being
self-sustainable and there's different
ways to measure that metric because in
the end self-estator was when is it the
point where I can actually sell energy
to people cheaper than they're getting
it right now
um including all the actual Capital
costs of building that Fusion plans
that's your real break even that is not
what we're looking for to be in
developing it or r d sense of actually
deploying it because that's you take
step upstairs or you get it more
economical with scale but right now
we've got is another step of well we've
put more in we oh sorry we put Less in
than we got out and I think in this case
it was the beam itself actually had less
energy than was released but I'd love to
check that it's another step along the
way though
so we have a question here from
Elizabeth Davis so Babylon five
questions she says why did the Min Bari
believe Min bari's Souls were in humans
and were they going to try to get the
Min by Souls back into men body somehow
um you know I love B5 but it's one of
those ones from like the 90s and before
where for some reason sci-fi and that
you're always you know like well we're
gonna have no superstitious beliefs for
very rational people but for some reason
well that was psychic powers they're
very real you can see the future and
have telepathy
um I don't know why them about well
I would assume that the memory are
probably actually having their souls
translated from humans that story just
because this plot of that of that the
setting does allow that but at the same
time I don't know why that would have
happened I don't think sheamuso covers
that I think the only example they
actually had of that was with uh Valen
spoilers Sinclair and uh you know if you
haven't seen the series go watch it
because it's wonderful but do not watch
the movie in the beginning which was the
later on prequel TV show TV made for TV
movie they made which is whole books you
like them in Bali you will hate them
after that film because they just did a
very bad job rationalizing why they
attacked Humanity uh before they see
like a horrible tragic accent and they
see like just jokes more of its jokes
but I couldn't really answer beyond that
JMS is I gather uh
um the show founder JMS he is pretty
good about answering emails I'm told so
you might want to just email him
directly
Isaac bordeau says what other things
could a Matryoshka brain compute besides
a lot of people
uh
we stumped him we stumped him well it
does seem like usually there's there's
two things that people always ask on
that is what would you do with all that
Posse password how to calculate the
digits of pi if you are big enough
intelligence to actually be able to
calculate trillions of digits of pi
beyond what we do now
um I feel like you'd be small enough to
know how futile that process was
um unless somebody gets a Nobel Prize in
math I'm sorry there's no no password
but the other uh
there were the big prize for math
um you know it slowly showing there
actually is some patterns the pies
digits I don't think that there's
actually much reason why a machine would
do something like that so A lot of times
we need to ask or say what else would
you do with that processing power
um would it actually make sense to apply
that just because you could because it
doesn't seem to make a lot of things
that would go that much afterwards like
I've built this huge thing
just so I could do something incredibly
stupid with it it's all pointless
um so it usually three does seem like
either you got that one mind that's
going for you know demigod like status
or you're trying to like maximize how
many human or post-human Minds can be on
in the virtual Awards or even skipping
the virtual words just have the minds
running
um and I don't know there's been all
that meal then besides that you could
just say in general if you have any
problems left over that you haven't
solved scientifically yet like entropy
that's that's something you build a
mattress company for I have a suspicion
you would still fail to get uh it was a
resolution out of that but one can
always hope well let's ponder that and
come back after a short break and we
will take more of your questions in just
a few minutes
so we are Unbreak for a few minutes and
it's a good chance to grab a drink and a
snack like I'm probably doing right now
or to get more questions into our
moderators for part two we try to get to
as many questions as we can during the
show but if we miss yours you can't put
in the comments on the episode and I try
to get to most of those answered in a
day or so we had a lot of good ones
doing after the show last time and one
pair from Atwood has been on my mind a
lot of late it was if Earth didn't
become an auction Rich atmosphere could
complex or even intelligent life still
be able to form is there any signs that
there was anything bigger than Single
Living saw on Earth from that time
before oxygen the second question is
easier to answer as it is simply yes
multicellular life has evolved
independently and repeatedly in York
Yachts those are cells with nuclei at
least 25 times but also in various
prokaryotic life forms too we believe
the first occasion was somewhere between
3 and 3.5 billion years ago pretty soon
after life formed and does appear to be
a very easy hurdle which again has been
jumped separately by Evolution at least
a couple dozen times whereas the
oxygen-rich atmosphere while varying in
concentration over the eons built up
very rapidly over a period of about 10
million years 2.33 billion years ago a
billion and a half years after life
first emerged and not much less for
multicellular however there's a bit of a
greater assorton bigger than a single
cell because while we see multi-cellular
life emerge we don't see anything which
is bigger than microscopic emerged until
a billion and a half years after an
oxygen rich atmosphere came into play
somewhere around 600 million years ago
organisms which were bigger began
showing up and thus it's hard to say
that's because of oxygen appearing prior
to this period and for the vast majority
of Time Life existed on this planet
there were no federal prey Cycles either
and the Seas were very nutrient rich
so it is hard to say that oxygen
specifically was the reason for larger
organisms emerging but once that
happened 600 million years ago it wasn't
terribly long if we had many larger
organisms and the Cambrian explosion and
Predator play cycles that said it is
really hard to imagine immobile and fast
organism not running on oxygen you need
some sort of Rapid power source and
others are possible but would seem far
less likely to evolve or have abundant
competitive ecosystems obviously we
don't have many examples to work from so
it is possible the universe has many
life-bearing planets that might run on
different systems and run quite well or
even better than oxygen sugar do for all
life being what it is highly adaptable I
would tend to think any place that had
life emerged and that they had a
reasonable abundant source of energy and
nutrients should see ever growing
complexity but that really needs to
caveat of our memory that such organisms
only arose on Earth 4 billion years
after the planet formed anytime you've
passed says like Evolution and play too
we can't just assume it runs at the same
speed elsewhere if every life form could
be thought of as flipping a coin or
rolling a dice on whether or not is
existence move the neo4 on evolution in
some way than a planet that could only
support about a tenth of life in terms
of turtle biomass and had to move and
breed slower to build a preserves to
reproduce say 10 times the typical
generational cycle to produce survival
offspring that reproduces itself then a
process that took a billion years here
on Earth might take a hundred times
longer on a more Barren Planet 100
billion years eight times older than our
universe and that's actually being
rather generous some process might be
exponentially slower so that two things
were slow the odds 10-4 like that
individually actually powered on to be
more like 10 to the 10th longer rather
than 10 times 10 or 10 billion times
longer rather than 100 meaning it would
probably never happen even on Plants
around the longest lived red Dwarfs as
to the free oxygen question we'll be
contemplating that more in our early
February with look at terraforming and
hycian planets giant Wars with thick
hydrogen Rich atmospheres but sea and
land below now let's get back to our
show and more of your questions
all right we're back for our last show
of 2022 although as my wife noted there
were actually a lot of folks who are
already in 2023 right now so for those
of you who are getting ready to head
into that or just on the edge of that or
just got in their Happy New Year I hope
2023 is less aggravating than 2020
through 2022 seems to have been so
you've been very good news for me
personally but still aggravating so we
wish you lots of health happiness and
prosperity also I did have a chance to
look up what the expense was over the uh
the I was gonna say commercial break but
it'll just be talking
and that is a fascinating theory that
the the idea of the earth actually
expands in size slowly over time from
the early tectonics days from the 1800s
it's not really thought of very
seriously these days than I'm aware of
but that's a neat one so
um Christian corello thank you for your
Super Chat he wants to know if creating
true AI proves impossible would that
also mean that mind uploading is
impossible as well
um I mean I think it would be hard to
say that creating true AI was impossible
more like you would say like creating
true AI or something you hadn't actually
pulled off yet
um I just generally tend to assume that
the existence of a human brain uh as
intelligence and now I think it was
artificial gives you some Pathway to
make something that is a human level
intelligence but was not done the same
way
um if it is one of those things where
like it turned out there was a
supernatural quality of humans that
couldn't be replicated right uh take
that whatever particular fashion so
appeals
um then yes you've got a problem but
even then I think that would be a
question of finding out how do I hack
that and find a way to make one of those
things too you know can you borrow or
steal or buy solar stuff put inside your
computer for instance I think you had a
couple additional comments on that that
I missed okay go ahead he said after all
if we can expect computers to contain
how can we expect computers to contain a
true Consciousness if they can't even
generate one and then secondly could
somehow incorporating human neurons to
competing Tech possibly lead to True AI
think a reverse cyborg where you start
with a robot then add biology to it
which begs the question why would we
um
I was thinking of the positronic man
there by Isaac Asimov and Robert
silverberg which is a really good Sci-Fi
story
um I think it was also called the
Bicentennial Man depending on which
which version is the novella and a short
story version
um and in that you actually have a
Android that's looking to become human
over time and it's very very touching
story but also very much a kind of a
supervised version of the thesis ship
you know what is the fundamental quality
of human that you cannot be replaced you
know is it the brain is it the heart is
it the soul take your pick
um and the answer at the moment is that
we do not know so if there is one of
those things that we don't know what it
is and we find out there is something
intrinsic to us that is not replicatable
then that we can't make Ai and so
otherwise we should I think you'll see
the Republic we could
um yeah
says you have said that Thanos plan to
solve overpopulation by killing half the
population is rather dumb YouTube won't
show me any videos on the topic so could
you please explain to me why his plan
makes no sense well um I'm surprised I I
get force-fed those videos although I'm
moving MCU well I shouldn't say I'm an
MCU junkie I'm a Marvel Comics chunky uh
and I have liked most the MCU movies uh
you know obviously right from the get-go
Iron Man was good Iron Man 2 not so good
A lot of the Hulk movies not so good but
in spite of as many ups and downs good
good uh good cinematic setting but all
right so the Thanos one that is in the
the MCU is very different than the one
that's in the comic books in the comic
books the reason wants to kill half the
population is because he's trying to
please his Patron which is the god of
death he just likes to kill people
because he has to kill people uh that's
that's the Thanos of the comic books
um in the MCU the idea is that he's
going to kill off half the population
well let's say you go and kill half the
you know half the bacteria right well
tomorrow then they're all back because
they replicated by like a one day you
know life cycle
um obviously the consultant is with
intelligent entities like humans so you
kill half the intelligent species of the
universe and the universe theoretically
14 million years old is going to barely
have a chance to take a quick breath and
to be horrified which did before uh you
know 100 years later the population is
right back to where it was before you
did that see I keep doing that right uh
safely decided double the resources only
fit that's usually what people say
didn't make sense about you know thesis
plan and um
I think they did a good job making him
more sympathetic that way it doesn't
really have to make much sense to me
it's the MCU is not really all that
scientifically sound uh they also play
with him back in the Civil sofa Animated
Series in late 90s they didn't want to
have him be a follower of death so his
Patron was chaos instead uh and that
also kind of messed with the character a
bit but the fascinating character on his
portrayals over here so but uh not
really set on you know sane logical
plans much either DW thank you for your
Super Chat how do I get so much feet
real about saying that last bit yes
Dallas is a very good villain who after
thinks things through strategically too
DW thank you for your Super Chat what's
the difference between an MWI Multiverse
and the type of parallel universes that
you discussed in the edge of the
Universe episode
no that problem is I had to remember the
ones I discussed and here's the universe
well um
because we've done a lot of episodes on
oh no realities and things like that so
as Universe if I remember right was the
one we were talking about why the
cosmological Event Horizon exists and
what that means if I'm really not right
then we have been talking specifically
about hyperspace or we'd have been
talking about
um the other parts of the universe that
might be Beyond ours and like just if
you could go faster than light you'd
reach other places instead of the same
as here
um
hyper space versions come a lot of forms
too and that'd be like let's say that
well that's so simple in MWI there are
copies of Earth that are just a little
bit different than us right that goes a
lot further than that though because you
have a copy of the Earth Fare is one
atom bigger than it is right now but
otherwise identical then you have
another copy of the Earth from 4 billion
years ago where it's the same size and
makeup as Mars so it is very very broad
but it's basically all your what ifs but
with the same rules you're you're using
the same basic rules in a hyperspace
concept or other types of ones where you
have congruent universes it could be the
same type of you know what's the same
laws of physics but the speed of light
is one meter per second faster or 10
times faster or the universe is one
tenth it's coincides because it's
younger and thus you could travel to two
congruent points and pop back in and
have traveled ten times what is the only
wood uh there's a lot of options in
those kind of scenarios but usually we
were talking about various things MWI is
the what if Universal things being just
a little bit different in terms of
events then you have ones with a
physical constants have been changed in
some fashion you know
um and you have ones where it'd be more
like there's four physical dimensions
you know or five real ones expanded
um then you have the ones where it's all
the same but the age is different or
some very critical thing is just a
little bit different nudged right all of
those are options for multiverses and
there is a couple different taxonomies
for that I think take more cast four
there's another we talked about in the
outset you know what's this episode was
a different like nine different types
and type nine is the really extreme one
of all possible mathematically
representable Concepts as universes so
just generally speaking though as always
I don't mind people the amount of proof
we have backing up the assistance of any
of these is zero
excuse me
Nancy mantis thank you for your Super
Chat she says are we as a species
overall decent and good who by now at
this stage of our existence truly care
about each other being happy
I mean I think so we're not sociopaths
um some are yeah some are but the thing
is they are they are the abnormal you
know they had they are not the normal
least importantly I don't know if we can
really extrapolate how people behave say
two three thousand years ago
um I would think they'll even then I
don't think they've been terribly
sociopathic
um although I think that there's
probably some psychology anyway to say
that you really shouldn't use that term
that way
um but let's just say they were there
were people who had a lot less
compassionate in the past probably but
in nature you certainly see a lot as
compassion you people say well humans
are the only species that makes foreign
is cruel and so that's every every part
of that statement was run
um humans are the only species that
actually seems and that's not really
true either but the most recently seems
to kill much about when we do misbehave
you know
um you do see compassion in other
animals but it is a much more limited
short-term kind of thing and so I would
say that while we certainly have a
capacity before crueler than anything in
nature it's uh mostly different in the
sense that we have the capacity to be
fall Kinder and I think that's a that's
a long trait and civilization is a
process of learning so that is one of
the things I feel optimistic about as
long as you're keeping your records as
long as you're learning from the
mistakes that pass by remember between
them which we do for the most part do if
someone haphazardly then you can make
progress towards being better
I hope uh we have another Super Chat
here from Alexander parshev thank you
Alexander what is the next step for
Earth to Leo Transportation after the
SpaceX Starship Okay so
um
what gets us to space fast from that I'd
say the next actual step is probably
just going to be another Improvement
done but usable rockets that sees where
people are going right now
um I would love I would love to start
seeing something like an orbital ring or
you know a livestream Loop being used
but there's such a heavy investment to
prototyping that that I think that until
we actually have kind of ground out that
market with reusable Rockets I don't
think you see one pushing towards doing
that so it's one of those set examples
of when a technological Improvement in
one area can kind of grind the uh to
whole research in other areas which we
often see with energy for instance but
at the same time if things keep
improving you know they're not improving
all the categories you like can't
complain too much so I think at the next
step with something for low earth orbit
is probably just going to be more
rocketry Federal fast or reusable ones
right now the biggest thing is it's not
really the fuel that's the main cost
it's all the repairs and all the
Precision work that we've done to make
the rocket and we'll cover it we're all
going to get better at doing that
cheaper and a liar scale and that will
make it cheaper Robert wants to know how
long until all of the electric vehicles
are powered by nuclear fusion
[Music]
um you know that's a tricky one because
it depends on what you mean by that I
would not expect to ever get a cool
little micro Fusion reactor like there
was and was out back the future he shows
up at the end of the last movie it'll be
in the second movie he's got a little Mr
Fusion in his vehicle instead of the
plutonium reactor he had in part one
um I don't expect to see a reactor at
that scale and the other thing about
Fusion is you need to do better than
stars do because again like you we get
very little energy production off of you
know a kilogram of matter of you know
stall core matter uh compared to
something like gasoline it's just they
would do it for billions of years
um
let's see you get more like Supernova
grade uh power sources when you actually
want to learn something like it was
running on a normal gas generator
uh
the thing there is that it depends what
you mean by being run by fusion and of
course if you are 100 solo economy uh
well that's fusion and they say well you
know what we do is here we're using the
San Mateo process to to retroactively
make methane to power things over
hydrogen or you know straight gasoline
from the atmosphere and uh now that's
fusion-based economy we're doing so many
high gas engine you know uh so it
depends on what you really mean by that
I think if the context was when do we
have gigantic Fusion reactors powering
the economy
I am not going to say 20 years I don't
think that's true at the moment anyway
but it's such a cliche to say it but
this Century I think this Century if
it's possible we'll get it done this
century Albert Jackson says in science
fiction Nano machines for construction
are commonly depicted
and it just jumped and I lost the rest
of the question
um
is that the question actually what is
the difference between those depictions
and what Nano machines can actually
achieve and where is the line sorry
about that yeah I've got the questions
over here on this other screen it's just
it's it's like a way with you for it
um so
there's a lot of problems with Nano
machines there was an argument I'm
trying to remember what the names are
they debate on it but it was about the
sticky finger spot if you look up the
sticky fingers problem you'll see a
scientist attached to it who has
involved a very long debate about the
topic of what the limitations on
nanotech were
um
and I think the biggest one is we forget
how insanely fragile things are like
thinking Evolution wise things have
gotten I would say bigger low time but
you know they've got more divorce mostly
it's still small why haven't they gotten
smaller you should be evolving smaller
if you could if evolution is trying to
constantly get more for Less it should
be trying to miniaturize where it can
you know bottom level cell should be
shrinking and we see that with viruses
now people say well viruses are tough to
kill no viruses are stupidly easy to
kill the problem is that all the
techniques we have for using them are
basically let's hit this with a
sledgehammer and it's kind of like
trying to kill a mouse by bombing the
building that it lives in that will
absolutely walk but the problem is that
all you've got is a gigantic gun that
blows up houses you're Mouse hunting
inside a populated area that you'd like
to want not damage is tricky but this is
not tough It's just that they already
have to talk it and that's because
they're very small but they're also
really simple part of why they are not
really all the impressors they're really
simple right uh they're also really
fragile
um because they're really small and
there's a minimum size you'll see with
cells but I would actually guessed that
the original cell was bigger than the
smaller cells we have nowadays probably
smaller than mostly cells but small
you're bigger than smallest ones because
there's only smoke soil you can really
make something before it's going to just
not a walk and right now your typical
small cell is like a trillion atoms you
know if it could be smaller it could
just be like a billion atoms that would
be a pretty big deal that'd be a lot
more efficient and you think that it
would have gotten there if it could
right you know the Evolution's made some
pretty big bounds in the scale so it
should be able to get smaller especially
since most likely mutating is small
so you could build something from the
ground floor a bit smaller but don't
assume that you can build something
that's like five atoms across to just
keep all self-replicating it's not not
going to be that easy they're going to
be fragile they're going to break easier
you want to become sturdy or strong or
quicker you're going to have to make
other sacrifices in terms of making them
big or making them mean more power
making them slow Etc there will be
trade-offs and obviously the nail tech
wouldn't be much more impressive than
biology but don't think it's going to be
like oh I dropped one little nanobot on
the planet in five minutes later it's
turned it into a spaceship and that's
quite how that works
Sono Bella says how realistic do you
think the absence and House of sons is
as I work around to prevent breaks and
causality
um oh we did an episode some years back
for Christmas called the Santa Claus
machine episode it was last time we did
an episode on uh Christmas which was one
reason why I didn't do the live stream
um Sunday like normal when Christmas is
that episode did very badly on that day
and then did very good in the days
afterwards but the Santa Claus machine
episode does go into a lot of the
specific reasons why they all know it's
what you can do with like replicating
technology whether it's Star Trek
replicators or whether it's nanotech
that's very tiny so the absence from
Alistair vanowen's book The House of
sons is an area of it's about spoilers
it's the Andromeda galaxy but
um they can't see the Andromeda galaxy
anymore it's set about six million years
in the future and somewhere in there a
few million years before that the
Andromeda galaxy just disappeared and
the reason given for that there is that
when they built a wormhole you could
just disappeared out of nowhere uh to
the Andromeda galaxy uh the way they got
out of causality there was to have the
thing disappear so that you couldn't
like do you know what time travel tricks
that you could do with a worm horse for
violent causality see you episode one
more list for details what those are
um I would say his hand waves go it's
magnificent austrial balance is a very
good cosmologist he knows what he's
talking about but it is still a hand
wave I don't think that would actually
walk but it sounds like a cool answer
and it was a very good one for like what
the Buddhist void would have been which
we didn't really know at that time what
that was and people oppose it might be
like a mega civilization so wonderful
book is a probably the best one he's
ever written and he writes some good
ones but I wouldn't call that the
hottest sci-fi example from him although
he does keep it pretty realistic and I
love that it's still slower than light
except for that track one more
don't forget your sunscreen says what do
you think about the aliens in the SCP
Universe such as scp-799-3
I'm not sure what that is
okay moving on I feel like I should
I have something sent that to me I think
I'm sorry I can't recall what that is
right now
what's the next one
um let's see
yeah that one's repeated multiple times
so
yeah repeat it again so I'm not really
sure what that one is either
question uh
I'm not seeing the question
yeah it's at the bottom um anyway do you
think walking Mexico take the place of
tanks and warfare that one go ahead okay
well well now you should ask the
question or you just read it okay so the
question being do you think that walking
Max will take the place of tanks and
warfare and the answer is my wife
doesn't watch anime and hasn't seen
battle Tech so that's why she doesn't
there's always so much sci-fi I can go
to go in for
um so no because for the most part we
will track vehicles are actually a lot
better than um than legs their legs have
their usage but I don't think the most
environments they're going to make that
much of a difference as you just need
the ability to get around fast and
that's where you start going for
something that's more aerial they're
cool though everybody wants a giant
battle Mech and uh we did an episode on
that too uh I think that was one where I
I said how disappointed sad I was that I
just couldn't find an excuse why that
would be a technology people used
um we should do another episode on that
again giant battle Mecca oh Sona Bella
also had a question could we have an
alien entity that we recognize as
Sapient and yet be completely unable to
communicate with them like in the novel
Solaris
um I mean it's worth pointing out that
in solos they do end up communicating
with the with the entity to some degree
obviously it's it's more that they they
communicate very clearly and I think
that's like
so so we don't know that's indefinitely
impossible to make contact that way just
that they haven't figured out there yet
um Allison Olson Scott called plays with
that in his um endos game series the uh
book Speaker for the Dead through well
good God what's the
there's another one I haven't shown on
the mind too but uh the idea being that
there were
um
uh
types of aliens that were very like you
psychologically that's about physical
but you know in terms of brain
architecture the ones that you could
never really be calm or happy with
because you just were to fall apart that
it was like orange and blue morality it
wasn't really good or evil but more like
apples and oranges and the other ones we
just couldn't have a conversation he had
some names for those that he made I just
can't caught they all
um I think that you could potentially
have that but to me the helicons of
intelligence is a rational reasoning
capability you know the ability to start
doing logic and math and contemplating
things and I feel like that should
always leave you an Avenue where two
species or two minds should be able to
eventually not say this would have
actually necessarily work for them but
eventually you find a way they just
works it hard enough uh to actually
speak of course they might say wow now
that I understand you better I can't
wait to kill you off because it might
turn out that you just find them
inevitable to you so the ability to
actually have conversations as Douglas
Adams point out and it is novel
hitchhike was God the Galaxy with the
Babelfish uh would have an instant
translation of everything caused more
and bloodier Wars than anything ever
before in his Universe just because once
you know for sure what people are saying
it's so much easier to decide to go
ahead and slap them so
Michael fassio says I found your channel
Yesterday can't stop watching it awesome
thank you and welcome on board
we have a super chat from Vincent
Cleaver thank you Happy New Year how are
the kids they were quiet at the moment I
don't hear them that is good Bella
excuse me good the goal the daughter is
watching with Grandma sorry daughter
um and the boys are being entertained by
something other than daddy well before
the show got started of Egypt you like
pre-checks on all the cameras and I need
to make sure they are all set I can
never really use things because we only
do this once a month so the goal
um was helpy with the setup on that did
a wonderful rendition of the ABC she's
in kindergarten so that's still pretty
impressive
um so I hope this get all sound in place
before we got started yes sorry about
that well they're doing wonderful and
they're awesome yes
and we have one here for
um
no I think I read that one already I
think that I actually might have gotten
through the majority of these
well pretty close did we get the show do
we get a line you in on the saw let's
see um I think I didn't ask this one
from Felipe Gonzalez what do you think
about
size change technology like Ant-Man I
know MCU novel uh movie that's uh well
I'm looking forward to the quantum mini
episode and we actually kind of Click
making a title on there because I
decided to do an episode called multi
Multiverse Warfare
um right after I got done doing the time
Wolf episode and when I noticed it was
going to come out in February at the
same time that uh quantumania was coming
out I decided to go ahead and call it
Multiverse Warfare and Quantum Mania and
haven't come out the day before the
movie comes out
um so technology of that variety no and
and here's why uh as you're seeing with
these things you don't just get to
subtract out particles or just shrink
things and have them stay at the same
scale
um you can't make a star that's a
thousand times bigger because the
fundamental mechanics will make it break
down it's going to die for you has a
chance to ignite in a case like that
um or go wolf right yet anyway
um you don't just get to shrink things
without changing them so what you could
do in a case like that is like give
yourself the Fantastic Voyage approach
of uh we're going to put you all in
robots in little Androids that are all
shrunk down and you can go pilot those
unfortunately and run around inside of
people which I think they did in
Futurama too uh we did have the shrink
away in that one
um yes we've done so many times
Fantastic Voyage by Isaac asmov is that
I want to be one of those better known
no novels but it's been parodied so much
um in movies and TV shows
um
it's not really one of those things that
would walk you can't really shrink or
expand that way because the mechanics
change too much but you could always
build something like that and then
implant the brain or what we control
them
sundead says do you think Kevin
McAllister from Home Alone could outwit
a group of yacha from Predator movie
series
do we think
the ah
um that chemicals could outwit
the Predator
um a group of yacha from the Predator
okay and that so there's another one we
haven't watched because I started
playing that I think we got to the point
where they were getting down the forest
you said you'd want to watch the rest of
the movies
although that's that's the most
impressive usage of ammo I've ever seen
in a film before I love that scene uh in
the original Predator movie
um I don't know because the predator in
those things are actually often very
stupid depending on who's writing them
it's kind of the aliens from the alien
franchise depending on the portrayal
they can either be incredibly clever or
incredibly scary or just kind of
incredibly stupid
um which could be scary sometimes too
um
and no I don't think he yelled out with
them in the end though just because well
it's the predatory it's good honey
people so
Home Alone five five whatever
I think they're over seven oh all alone
13 then yeah the Halloween version I've
only seen short sections of the Q a live
streams before wow I'm impressed
watching properly the interim break was
great and the upcoming episodes in the
main q a
thank you
um
I think I've gotten through all of the
main questions here but we have a lot of
wishes from around the world for a Happy
New Year we hope yours is happy
prosperous and healthy as well and do
you have any party New Year's
resolutions
oh
no because I I wrote about not actually
having New Year's resolutions it was
gonna work out well for the people so I
would say if you've gotten New Year's
resolutions resolved actually pick ones
that are achievable and pursue them so
but uh I think beyond that no I I wish I
think I'm hoping that 2023 will be a
more relaxed year than 2022 has been as
well and uh I think as we said in one of
the episodes they are it can seem like
it's been a kind of a bit of a bleak
here in some ways but at the same time
it's still been a very good year for a
lot of us you know personally I've had a
great year so I thought you were being
married to a beautiful wife and now I
got three wonderful kids and I love my
job so much so and you guys are a lot of
the reason why I do love my job because
I do have basically the best audience
out there and that's not just me saying
that there's a lot of other people who
watch this show or YouTube creators and
it's very common for them to express
jealousy about our audience and how
awesome it is so and I agree they're
right our audience is better
with that we wish our fantastic fans a
wonderful happy 2023 which we get to
count down to in about seven hours and
on that note everyone we will see you on
Thursday Happy New Year and I hope you
have a great year
so that will wrap us up for the day I
want to thank everyone for joining us
and again if we didn't get you a
question feel free to post us a comment
below and I'll try to get to it this
evening also you can continue the
conversation at any of the forums on
Facebook Reddit Discord or our website
isagartho.net
thanks for joining us and we'll see you
Thursday
