and watch your spelling and try to be
polite to others in the chat good
afternoon
though
with all that said welcome and let's get
started
good afternoon everyone and welcome to
our monthly livestream q a here for sfi
today we'll be joined as usual by my uh
wife and lovely co-host sarah fowler
aldo who will be reading your questions
off from the chat as well as from some
of our moderators like syndry who's kind
of to join us to get some questions on
there and as usual please try to get
your questions in in as legible and
straightforward fashion as possible to
make a little bit easier for them to uh
translate over to us so
uh with all that said uh we'll be going
for a usual about one hour with a break
about halfway in between for about four
or five minutes
and uh we'll probably do a lightning
round near the end to go through as many
questions as we can to being a chance to
give some time to but as a warning sir
and i just got in from a one-week trip
so we're still getting a little bit uh
jet lag so my apologies in advance if
i'm a little bit uh
slower than i should be to respond on
some things or make any mistakes and i
said let's get started very good well
our first question was from johnny wings
we had a number of folks putting
questions in before we got started today
which is great and johnny says hi isaac
and sarah i love your show do you think
technology will ever advance to the
point when it is too complex for humans
to understand perhaps after years of ai
development
you know this is one of those questions
that comes up a lot of times in regard
to technological singularity or just
trying to forecast how things are going
to work out in terms of who's doing the
research and the usual idea is if you
get sufficiently advanced technology you
get super intelligent ai that the ai is
doing all the actual research um e m
banks in this cultural series plays with
this concept quite a lot too
so there's some pitfalls he looks at
that's jess but
i would say no because
fundamentally um
what qualifies as a person your
civilization is likely to be these
partially based off of what actually is
getting work done and so if you have
super intelligent cyborgs or ai doing
these things they're likely to be
considered whatever you think of humans
anyway the other thing to keep in mind
is that it's not necessarily a sign that
somehow humanities become their pets or
things like that that could happen but
right now in our civilization most of us
who actually understand the sciences are
minority and we certainly understand our
own science and narrow subfield even my
own fear of physics there are areas i
don't really understand all that well
and i don't know much about biology or
chemistry that uh second authorities
didn't want to know and yet that has
nothing to do with whether or not i
understand new areas of science or vice
versa for an export and has nothing to
do with you know our civilization going
forward in terms of most people not
knowing that
our next question was yes what
go ahead
i believe he said the short answer was
yes
our next question here is uh a super
chat actually and we thank you for all
those super chats that i'm seeing pop up
in the feed and we appreciate your
support this is uh 20 from miami's last
capitalist and he wants to know what
could it be like to experience the
universe splitting because you caused a
paradox
such as using a suicide-packed ftl what
happens if you're not deleted from time
would you get a new universe or only
things causally related to you
a long one uh thank you by the way i
think uh
that might be more
um
good question one of the problems is i
don't know the answer because
fundamentally if you do have two on the
timelines you don't really know what's
going on the other one and that includes
whether or not it exists
um
and i guess we have a lot of rick and
morty fans on the show might remember i
think was the season two or three opener
where they accidentally uh caused a uh
time paradox like that and that ends
with uh some four dimensional beans
going back in time and beating up on
albert einstein uh to to in the paradox
or to create a self-creating one um
i don't think you'd be able to actually
talk to someone who was an alternate
timeline or observe them or react to
them in any way even though they existed
in that sense because you just create
another alternate timeline as well in
which you did not do that and so forth
um you know we have this concept of all
these different options that could
spring out from the same point but when
they start trying to weave back together
you get problems um and some of those
are things like conservation of energy
which again a conservation of energy and
of itself is not the end of the world if
you don't have that functioning
generality doesn't really do
that well with it in the first place but
what happens if i take a timeline and i
move a piece of matter from one into the
other now one of those universes has
less mass in it energy and massive
option concern and the other one has
more and of course because as more it
has more particles in it that have
branching timelines and we screwed out
that in our episode
parallel universes and all realities and
we're going to be looking at that more
in our alternate timelines episode
but i think that's that's the kind of
critical one there is
if you do split your universe apart like
that if that's actually even something
you can do because again you can start
getting energy uh conservation issues
that too
i don't think there's going to be any
way you'll be able to talk to that
person that will try to knit things back
together again uh though it does make
for good sci-fi and really bad sci-fi
too uh there was
one highlander-esque one that was based
on multiple realities i think the
checklist on it where he was going
around uh getting copies of himself to
kind of like uh
end up as the one true uh copy of
himself was that the stare at the camera
okay
my wife often tells me hand signals
while we're doing this they usually
speed up slow down or stare at the
camera we're out of practice all right
so next question please yes that that's
called uh look at the camera not the
computer
just a guy with guns
when looking for life in the universe
would it be best to start with bar
galaxies as the formation of the bar may
allow for enough time
for life to emerge okay uh i'll unpack
that one real quick for folks um
we usually try to figure out when we
have a galaxy that actually has a high
enough metalistic rate and star
formation rate um and in a packed enough
area that you can actually get
terrestrial planets rocky terrestrial
planets
and one things we found out recently um
is that stars probably have galaxies
even have started to form as early as
300 million years if not sooner after
the uh the big bang but we have no very
hard model right now for when a rocky
planet could have formed or how they
could form uh in high probability
um there's actually something we kind of
have looked at in the gravity aliens
hypothesis which caused mathematicize
the uh rare intelligence or rare earth
camp and yes we will be doing an episode
on gravity aliens soon i i wrote it a
few weeks back
um that's been getting asked about that
a lot recently um but
i don't know that a bald galaxy is
necessarily going to have a much faster
rate of formation in that regard they
would not be a bad candidate for it but
the other key in mind is that so much of
early galaxy formation in that period is
them eating each other when they're
small little proto galaxies you know
what we look at in terms of a bigger
galaxy these days um they were much
smaller like the ones we just saw in
james webb those were galaxies like a
billion stars 300 millions in
and when their major activity is running
into each other
and eating each other up and then that's
likely set up star formation waves too
that might tend to dominate up with that
early structure like
all right the next question is from this
is new i think i was like three of other
so i'm not sure i don't know
[Laughter]
well you might know this one uh this one
is from this is new hi isaac and sarah
since radiators cannot radiate into a
hotter environment than themselves how
can you cool the hardware of us the
laser inside the corona which is at a
million degrees a good question you can
actually radiate into something that is
harder than yourself but this is one of
those thermodynamics issues that cannot
be confusing people because it's a
physical process
um there are three types of ways you
move heat around convection conduction
and radiation
radiation
by default is when you're going to be
emitting photons into
base case a vacuum
um and then of course conduction is when
you're touching something and heat into
it and convections where like a loose
gas moves between them so last example
i'm touching a hot metal bowl that's
conducting that's hot red uh in the
steam coming up off the thing of a pot
of water is convection and radiation is
the light coming off that glowing red
ball
planets and other things in a vacuum can
only move energy by emitting photons
radiation now with something i guess the
laser will say well the surface of sun
is 6000 degrees and we say well you know
what the corona of the sun is actually
like a million degrees people think
space is cold right it is not most of
space and most of the solar system is
actually a good deal hotter than this
planet in our area
um the average temperature of the solar
system since 99.8 percent of it is the
sun is uh probably close about a million
years and the corona around this one is
very hot
do not be confused with the idea that
how much heat is in something is the
same as what is temperature
the other thing keep in mind is if i
take a bunch of photons that happen to
be the equivalent of a billion kelvin in
terms of their temperature or their
their photon energy and i send that as a
diffuse beam towards some area that is
say antarctica that might only have a
few watts of power in it and that whole
area might warm up by something you
could barely measure without the best
instruments but that doesn't mean that a
radiator is not going to work right now
in that because there's a million degree
temperature there right there are mixing
concepts here that don't necessarily
apply well in the vacuum of space the
krona is ridiculously thin
even compared to the sun's photosphere
which is a lot thinner than our own
atmosphere so keeping that in mind it's
not an issue
as long as you are blocking more
radiation from you know idiots then it's
trying to admit you'll need coal good
reminder on how those things are
moving thank you
andrew hartley thank you for your super
chat 999 what specific technologies or
sciences could a college student study
today that would aid us in the
construction and management of a space
elevator
finance
it's going to be incredibly expensive i
mean almost everything on the front in
this right now is waiting patiently for
us to get a piece of technology that is
uh you know a letting us do the really
cheap superconductors and and magnetic
shields that will last you an active
support space elevator or b of course
the really strong material or something
stronger than graphene or c a way to
make graphene and really long sheets and
chains um cheaply and really cheaply at
least you know cheap is a say uh a mile
of highway like got to make 40 000
kilometers of stuff to get up to the
height in space
um
and uh so when you're thinking about
size of elevators by the way for space
cellars and earth always think about
something that's going to roughly wrap
itself around the equator this planet
that's the light this thing has to be
and that has to be
very impressively engineered if you're
trying to do that from a material that
needs to rely on not cracking
but uh
is it something that we're going to be
able to do with the existing
technologies if we do enough resources
at it yes so i would say that finance
actually is well a tongue-in-cheek
answer probably the right one it's us
figuring out how to best do those but
um those are the areas that mostly have
to be added you have to figure out where
are we getting the funds for this we're
going to figure out maybe the marketing
event it's how we can they won't do it
but then for the technology and uh
magnetic shooting warm temperature
superconductors a better power source of
storage and of course simply better
graphene things like that production
wise any of those give you the pathway
to making a space elevator
and even if they fail to get you that
that gives you things that will be
almost as good
and many other cool things with it
all right we'd like to welcome uh jan
back to the mods chat thank you for
jumping in to help
and we have a question here from david
reeves imagine a civilization that
developed at a time when their
observable universe had already expanded
over the horizon and out of view forever
could they work out reality
okay so um by the way since you just
mentioned that again i have mentioned
cinderella there are a lot of people on
the show on the back and you help out a
lot
and uh they're often here in the chat
too so if you see them or run into them
in the chat or the comments please say
hello and thanks if you enjoyed the walk
because they make this stuff
i wouldn't say so much possible is so
much easier and keep me sane
and me too
it's always good
[Laughter]
just noticed up on the screen there's a
little logo there for a podcast uh space
and science features and one that's
linked in the uh in the uh episode
description today that's an interview i
recently did with ben sinclair he's got
a new science podcast and and you know
go check that out afterwards if you're
looking for more content and while i'm
thinking about it for everybody else we
do have that pool going on for episode
topics that i pushed about about i will
go out on the community tab make sure
you go and vote for one of those
episodes those all came over from reddit
so our reddit group is uh also linked
there yes their question uh was
basically what happens if your
civilization is born late in the
universe and it's already spent out
beyond the house cosmological horizon
there's nothing to see it's just your
soul your planet maybe a few other stars
nearby
you don't think of universe out and the
answer is yes
we talked about that a little bit in
edge the universe um this is the concept
essentially that i can still see the
redshift for a long time afterwards of
these things that are leaving over the
horizon they leave a ghostly image i can
also see it by other things that might
make it over the horizon but then
there's the other aspect of this which
kind of goes back to that grab the
aliens hypothesis that you will say for
that episode is that
if you have civilizations early
expanding these rapidly expanding early
civilizations you're not going to have
any stars left over that no begotten
like that so you have the possibility
maybe for somebody who was born like a
cosmic void uh that was very thin now it
was just their stall
but and even then they could still
figure that out now and i they wouldn't
give them good odds of just happy
happy plant that was long enough to last
trillions of years
they should always be able to figure out
the evidence but they have a much bigger
initial investment but that might be
only take some extra which is
not that much on the grand scheme
the next question here is from bob
hopeldorf how likely do you think it is
that we develop antennas with
efficiencies of 80 or more before the
sentry is out i don't know what the
current state of terahertz rectifiers is
but i heard graphing cnt can handle that
question antennas or rectangles
nantennas okay
um
we have rectangles that are already up
in the 85.99 range of memory soils i'm
gonna have to punch on that one though
just because i'm not quite familiar with
what the zone is on that when we're
trying to send photons around things and
radio is an example of that so as um
other things besides photons we can send
that with too but photons get absorbed
they transmit themselves through
electricity in the material like a
semiconductor that's how that's how a
photovoltaic electric solar panel works
which the ones you see all over the
place see our future solar power episode
for more of the details on that but some
frequencies are a lot easier for us to
do well on those within
the waves video in general
so we like them for power transmission
because they wouldn't be blinding us
they would be screaming at the night sky
and they would allow us to send power at
a much higher efficiency rate than solar
panels like right now if i want to take
some energy in my house and beam it out
to my uh my tractor out the fuels and
the solar power my tractor right there
big solar power panels up inside my
house and uh collector on the other end
of solar panel on my uh my tractor i can
beam energy to my tractor as a laser um
the problem is that each step of the way
i'm probably losing about more than half
well more than half on each step of
converting that light into electricity
turning electricity back into a laser
beam saying that laser beam through the
air to the uh to the tractor and then
having the tractor convert that back
into horsepower electricity horsepower
at that point in time i have lost a lot
doesn't mean there's 90 converting at
each step makes that a lot more bearable
and makes powerless you know wireless
transmission
can it transmit through things like the
uh tree line in between here in the
field
which is another good point yeah i um
yes you the higher up you are the more
you can transmit direct line but for
things like line of sight radio and
microwave go through almost everything
it's weird to think that we cook with by
absorbing microwaves but they go through
pretty much and
we want to be able to transfer those
because light as you know goes through
very little
all right
the next question is a super chat ten
dollars from c stallion thank you see
stallion do you think the u.s could
control the future of digital tech by
regulating exports of the ultra-pure
courts needed to make computer chips
over 90 percent of the global supply
coming from a mine in north carolina i
hope not um i mean
this is kind of comes with the rare
world things too
people say well the china's got all the
rare earths and say no they don't they
they're not very very also very common
they're actually very common in north
america
the problem is that for mining them is
that you use a very biologically
destructive process that ruins the local
area so it kind of comes down to how
much are you willing to pay for
semiconductors if you clean
and uh that's the same kind of thing
comes with a lot of things like courses
ways or supplies of those i don't really
want anyone to be able to monopolize
access to a core material like that
almost anything else because
um
in that that tends to stifle even
ignoring
all sorts of problems that can come with
monopoly
uh which is another topic for somebody
who is not a physicist that's that's an
economic source of issue but just inside
the innovation technology platform area
monopolies don't tend to do very well
for innovation uh and production
technologies or that kind of downhill
costs that we expect to have on
technology boom because they're not
blowing because somebody's got a set
price or radar
obviously you can think of plenty of
other examples find a different show on
a different topic for more discussion
please
but that has that actually leads us into
a question though that about space
development that we had from
medievalists and he wants to know when
it comes to mining in space what will be
the first objective of companies will
they want to get ice or water iron or
would they be looking for rare minerals
and maybe the tie-in on that is maybe
that would alleviate some of the
destruction of earth areas well yeah
that is one of the things that i like
about uh i think a lot of us like about
the idea of doing mine is if you're
familiar with how we mine gold on earth
for instance um especially how how we
actually at a practical level it usually
comes attached with mercury it's very
common to find mercury with gold in the
mines and they just burn it off and they
unlock little kids doing the work on
that in africa that will be mercury
poisoning vaporizing board nuggets off
um obviously in space that's less fishy
you know
uh usually because you're not using
slave labor to mine
but um
when we talk about a lot of these
resources and how rare they are they're
still real in space too it's just you
don't have to
rip up the landscape to get access to
them the rarest thing we actually have
uh in this solar system is ecosystem
planet so i don't want to minimally
disturb that while getting other rare
elements
but yeah space mining is definitely a
way that you can manage to get a lot of
those rare or ecologically destructive
assets though
not necessarily an easy fix across the
board you know that's where those keep
researching across the board things as
to what we do first
um
that depends a lot on what you're using
for your drive
i tend to think that any access to ice
or water in space is your first place to
go
for actually getting a good fuel because
if you got the gas so to speak to move
stuff around and get your mining
equipment going out there that lets you
actually do cheaper so ice would be nice
for that aluminum uh alice as an option
would be nice but
obviously if we find a big pile of gold
on the moon we actually could
economically go get that right now and
bring it back especially because the
main shipping cost is to get they are in
terms of that being the high cost to get
some food sending stuff back from the
moon to earth is a lot cheaper and
that's for your shipping costs
all right
reverend rv says earth lies in the
ultraviolet habitable zone scientists
have determined that liquid water and
ultraviolet habitable zones are only
congruent around yellow dwarf stars is
this a great filter
it could be if they if the determination
is correct you weren't careful saying
things like scientists have determined
that whatever usually was that somebody
had done a study or model that indicated
that you would rarely find
you know places without that combination
if the models arise we have the same
problem with red dwarf plants and we
still don't know yet but we thought that
plants around retro stars that were in
the habitable zone would almost always
tend to be tidally locked another thing
beyond that is that's probably not the
case but that was our reasoning for
saying that well yellow to also maybe
orange dwarfs which are more common than
yellow dwarfs too and represent that in
between zone green red and or
yellow might be the rainbows that have
tightly locked um actual
plant you know plants around them that
they all be tied out around these red
dwarfs so if you can't have life on
planets that isn't entirely locked you
need to bring out a yellow star
but that we say to ourselves with better
modeling that's not true
and so we're still not sure exactly
where that's looking at in terms of
habitability maybe that was whatever
used by only yellow stars and we want to
be kind of careful with thinking about
foreign paradox solutions that tend to
engage in
and i forget what the war for this is at
the moment
uh the assumption that all planet is the
kind of natural best conditions that
that life would tend to have just
because it's the one that's got life we
shouldn't just assume that that yellow
star bias exists
but as to uv that's gonna be a big one
formation not just water which thick one
they are that we think of but
a lot of these um
things which are vital to what we
breathe in our atmosphere do not do well
under high amounts of ultraviolet light
it sounds like i am
overwhelming the volume with the
questions and that you are
fading away
so
let's try that value now can you say
something uh
yes
you'd like me to read the next question
go ahead yeah okay so the next question
is from my zombie lick
isaac do you think we'd already have
fusion power plants feeding the grid if
we had pumped a far far larger amount of
money into research such as a couple
trillion or would the progress be
similar
if we dumped a couple trillion dollars
into it i don't know that would i mean
going money at problems especially
resource problems does help
but it doesn't infinitely help and get
you other problems with that too so yeah
you double the resource funny for nasa i
don't assume we're getting to the moon
in half the time um but yeah i think if
we did well
if we got a lot stronger on nuclear and
we hadn't gotten
there were reasons why and and good
reasons as to why we got a little pant
about using power across the board
um i am a bit of an advocate for nuclear
power but not uh not across the board
one
and we've been more for that because so
much of the research overlaps i think
that we would see fusion
further ahead the biggest problem with
fusion though is it takes us five or six
years to you know get the elephants off
any given experiments and then five six
years to get funding for the next level
of expansion or five or six years to
build that experiment and then check it
again even though we are not learning
that huge of a thing in terms of brand
new knowledge that tends to be the
slowdowns it's very resource intensive
and requires a lot of precision they're
projects that often can't rush too much
how's our value now is everyone say
uh we're still working on it
so
a question here from thought criminal do
you think that you will ever make a
video on the age of m
such as a future where artificially
emulated minds exceed biological minds
and popular
i got that stuck in my head now as house
of m for marvel comics
uh let me see that again please
do you think you will ever make a video
on the age of m
such as a future where artificially
emulated minds exceed biological minds
population i think we've done a lot of
those although we could do it we could
do an episode specific to that to be
sure but
uh
i usually tend to assume that if if and
see i don't like to go for biological
versus emulated minds um
we would tend to think that really your
your mind is emulated on the substrate
of neurons already and you're switching
the platform um if it's more efficient
and it works correctly you know if we
don't like
we have a lot we don't know yet it is
entirely possible that if we emulated a
mind perfectly on a computer chip we'd
have left out some vital component that
we can't scientifically detect you know
a lot of bad sci-fi but maybe you've got
to source something that's not going to
pop up on that and now everybody wakes
up great except they're sociopaths or
they're crazy or whatever um
following that and again we just don't
know until we try that following that
we would expect pretty much everyone
would start moving on that kind of
substrate or platform at some point that
might be a billion years from now
performance decided to make the full
migration but you know it's a long time
but that's still short in universal
timeline so
generally speaking i would tend to
assume that age is
probably going to be dominant
even but it could go a lot slower it
really depends on how you like going
over that and how hard it is it's not
easy to
100 billion
buru says so what do you think that the
first self-replicating machine will be
used for
um
still trying to check see the volumes
back
be any notes on that yet or
i don't know why the board on this thing
always changes so much in between
recordings i i it sounds in here like
you're letting your voice drop am i just
letting it drop okay
all right so what was the question again
what do you think the first
self-replicating machine will be used
for
uh producing amoeba
um the first self-replicating machine
would probably be used in a lab to make
more of itself that's that's what it's
going to be doing is going to be
checking to see how much that happens
and then as soon as somebody gets that
walking and it's going to clamp down out
like crazy and say now we'd like to do
like a thousand generations to see
whether or not it is actually going to
you take crazy a while
that's the sort that you'd expect on a
tiny software potato the big ones aren't
really going to happen unless we're
packaging them up for space because we
always mean self-upgrading it doesn't
have a human involved with it
in practice uh you know like a
community's local economy is a
self-replicating machine with the 20 or
so factories in it that build most the
pulse needs to sustain or repeat itself
and has imports coming from outside that
are doing some specialized tasks but
that's true of our existing life form
too you're not producing the phosphorus
that your body use or or the sunlight
that the plant that you ate is doing so
that's probably where you see your first
real software cares when somebody
decides to try to remove as much of the
human part as necessary for a clanking
self-replicating system that does
something pretty simple on an asteroid
away from human
um but in terms of little tiny
self-replicating machines for great
google scholars those would be in a lab
and probably one that's got you know
explosives or incidents
that's
very paranoid things like that have that
invasive quality over expect from a big
factory that's got dumb drones that
you're watching the whole time
all right
ah this one is a lot of letters so i'm
not exactly sure who is sending the
question
but he says do you think that we can
actually achieve space exploration
without much modification on our bodies
in terms of cyber tech or even transfer
our consciousness digital or analog data
yes yeah um
you know the original use of the term
cyborg or cybernetic organism wasn't
even intended to talk about little metal
implants and you was more thought about
medical and uh biological mutations or
engineering to change somebody into a
space-ready organism
uh all at the same time
um
you know do we need those those are
going to pop up they're going to have
things that people don't even see
because they just become inherent to our
culture like eyeglasses no one thinks of
this as a cybernetic organism no one's
going to think of me as a cyborg if i
have contact lenses that are plugged
into the local augmented reality and
that still makes you pretty sidewall
compared to something just got a little
better all
um it's not that changing
a little augmented the reality contact
lenses would be a lot more of an effect
on cultural and so psychology than the
law would be uh do we need those live in
space do we need those to get to space
no we wouldn't i don't think we need any
of those
we've only sent people to space without
having those so i think that's the idea
that we necessarily have to do more than
that to get to other planets or even
other solar systems
it might help it might be very common in
fact i think it will be i think we
probably turned to a pretty cyborg
culture without you really thinking
about realizing it in the pacemakers the
cochlear implants the fitbit that just
happens to be implanted into you or
something like that those are going to
kind of slowly wake their way into
society and they're probably not going
to be all that awe inspiring or shocking
when they happen like most technology
but uh do we absolutely need it no i
mean you know generation ship serious
more discussion of how we do that
is it time for break i believe enough my
wife says it's time for a break over
there it is we've got quite a few
questions queued up but i think we are
ready for our break and then we will
come back and get to more of those
questions and the lightning round all
right
all right we'll be on break for a few
minutes so needless to say it is a great
time to get a drink and a snack
as a side note i finally had a chance to
catch up on some of my non-audiobook
science and sci-fi reading and three of
those were sci-fi novels the authors had
given me what a time to be alice by gs
taylor james l cambius is the godel
operation for maine publishing and also
from bane will mccarthy's rich man's sky
i am pretty sure gs taylor sent me that
novel over a year ago and considering
it's a rare entry that has an orbital
ring in it i am sad it took me so long
to get to them i get sent quite a few
books by the authors often with personal
notes about how the show influenced them
and i do try to get to all of them but
it takes a lot of time
quality of novels sent to me definitely
varies but all three of these were very
good and it was nice to have a hat trick
of good books in a row and i love
cambius's painting of a setting of
proper kardashev 2 scale in the 10th
millennium big ideas
i know we have a lot of sci-fi idols out
there and it is hard to get published
though since it comes to mind let me
give a quick shout out to bain for
making such an effort to keep the doors
open to new talent i had occasion some
months back to have dinner with one of
their senior editors and chat about the
ups and downs of the publishing world
for sci-fi and the modern era and it is
hard for folks to break in since our
show began as an attempt to make
something like a video wiki of
megastructures and alien concepts for
sci-fi authors i always like to make
sure we're giving shout outs to good
writers order new and helping some new
ones get some larger followings when
their work clearly deserves it
i am principally an audiobook fan myself
and of course audible is our show's
longest running sponsor and we are their
longest-running continuous spawn c2
apparently so when folks ask me about
getting their book better known i
usually suggest either recording an
audiobook or recording a few sample
chapters and posting them with your
cover art on youtube for free it's a
really good way to build a following
though obviously i'm a little biased
another piece of advice for new authors
is to remember that editors do not exist
to fix your typos and neither do i that
is supposed to be done before you start
putting the book around for others to
see besides maybe your alpha reader but
no one should really see it till it is
less than one typo per page
android's main job is to point out plot
holes boring bits place where the
phrasing needs some work not spell
checking you and they tend to deep six
books since then that have multiple bits
of spelling or grammar errors on page
one and so do i
of course my own editors are probably
laughing by now since i'd shown scripts
out that often have plenty of typos in
them but that relates to me having a
weekly show and not being able to look
at long scripts i've personally written
for days after i wrote it to be able to
make good edits
i'm essentially an essayist not a
novelist and my show is audio video it
is not intended to be text only and i
don't post the scripts anywhere for
folks intentionally i have a
perfectionist streak and the only way i
can get 64 episodes done each year
averaging over 5 000 words apiece while
also recording editing and videoing them
is to know when to cut things off since
i had to turn out the equivalent of a
novel's worth of material every two
months
and that's not half the work of making
the whole episode video at all
i friends who do monthly or quarterly
shows who ask me how i do it and i've
got friends who do daily shows often
more than an hour in length and i ask
them the same
i couldn't keep up the weekly flow
without my editors and ones willing to
flat out tell me when a piece of script
is tried too
thick skin is very handy if you're a
writer of any type and a good editor
needs to be willing to poke hard
sometimes and call out bad writing so
i'm incredibly grateful to all the folks
who volunteer their time editing my
often very unpolished scripts down the
years and feel free to shoot me a
facebook friend request and message if
you are a masochist with free time and
want to help edit sfia
that's not to imply a new author should
let themselves spend years publishing or
rewriting a book either honestly if it's
taking you more than a year of work on
one to get a decent first draft ready
you probably want to be thinking about
setting your side for another story
people do write themselves into a corner
a lot and without naming names the
reason many of book series slows down
output is because the author isn't
really sure where they want to take it
anymore or has gotten bored writing that
series and wants to try something else
but their audience or editors really
want book 7 but they are not really
feeling it to write it
never hesitate to shove or abandon a
story or essay either i do it quite a
lot and often regret when i thought i
should but chose not to i've never
regretted being a writer though i love
it i love my format and i'm grateful so
many folks seem to enjoy it too
thank you for tuning in
anyway some food for thought as we get
back to our show and more of your
questions
and we're back
well i had time to get my drink in a
snack how about you pick my coffee but i
actually forgot to put any cream on it
so
well that is unfortunate for you yes i
had time to get a couple cookies in
all right
we have quite a few questions and we
want to get to as many of them as
possible and then we're going to save
some time at the end for our lightning
round so
uh jumping right in
bill spooner wants to know if you think
the benefits of fluorine lithium and
hydrogen rockets outweigh the risks
because of their efficiency
biggest problem you have any of those
things right now is that they are hard
to transport safely and actually not get
the leaking lucky steer same problem we
have hydrogen i would say that if
i would like to see more work done with
those without uh i use tenderfield as a
big regulatory barrier a lot of times
with nasa just the area to get set up
there's so much effort to testing
rockets out and i would like to see that
fearfully reviewed to allow that to be a
little bit better for a lot of people
actually test new stuff out and work on
some of the uh the upgrades without it
being such a barrier to game
someone says is it possible to invade an
arcology or would it be simpler just to
blow it up from orbit
always simpler to blow something up than
to actually invade at the same time you
have like a new sono um you know for
those who were in the uh
extra graphic sanctuaries episode we had
that brief scene there on uh venus where
you've got some aliens so to speak or
you're really human descendants of some
old hive on venus from years back who
come back to reclaim their beloved hive
tower and they'd fight their way down
like a hundred thousand stories of it
for a couple centuries
um i think that finding inside an
arcology it would be
way worse than trench warfare as implied
by that scene
um and there's something where you're
like well we've taken three floors this
this decade yay
it could be an absolute bloodbath trying
to take one of those things
you know obviously you wouldn't be
fighting just whatever the level you'd
be probably outside too you have all
your neighbors who want judy and she if
you try to do that so
i think that the question comes down to
as always it's always gonna be easier to
destroy it but there could be
consequences like you don't get to have
it or your own people decide to have you
shot from blowing up an arcology full of
people or your neighbors decide to turn
on you too things are very different
when you don't just have two opposed
factions but a lot of surveying folks
outside so i don't think you'd see them
blown up too often but yeah we use
locatus of zork thank you for your 10
super chat he says do you think it is
ethical to keep an ai dumb in order to
keep it compliant if we have the
capacity to make it sentient
um
what you do to somebody that's actually
a person and
we'll leave line for now how we'd find
what a person is because i you know we
i still don't have a better idea of how
you really do that than i've had growing
up as a kid reading bicentennial man by
uh asthma and silverburg and um yeah
this was a good look at it too um we
don't know where that lines actually at
right now and it's hard to find but if
something's already at that point i
don't think that you're actually doing
anything wrong by not elevating it i
don't think that i'm putting my cap by
not uplifting them to be smarter i'm
probably just saving millions of mouse
lives and you know if those are equal to
my cat's life because i have to uplift
them too then surely i should not be
making my cat smarter uh and more able
to kill mice that i need to uplift too
and you get that same thing as at what
point would you stop well the ai is
stupider than an insect
and you know we keep a hive we keep
about six hives of bees here uh on the
on the outback behind the house
and uh those have tens of thousands of
bees in them and you try very hard not
to smush any enough to hit me they sting
you feel bad for smacking them but you
still kill
so many bees in the process of just
taking care of them telling them trying
etc if each of those had to be
considered elevated to being a human
intellectual was a problem um that would
obviously be quite the nightmare but uh
you know again that same thing should
apply to ai too i don't think that just
because you have a stupid ai out there
that you're doing on to it but we said
it would do anything harm or to it by
not making it
and thankfully
um
stupid in the sense that they were
saying or dumb is not the same as not
being smart because
those bees knew how to find that honey
regardless of the fact that they may not
be able to uh
rash and rationalize on par with the
human being
yeah i if for those of you who know cody
don rito he's one of those shows that uh
um actually helped me get my stalking
audience they gave me a lot of good
advice on there one of the things he
does besides science and engineering
videos is he does beekeeping so uh it's
always fun to watch those there but
sarah and i keep he's already mentioned
and um
i've learned a lot of tricks off of him
uh one of those i didn't have a chance
to learn though was don't leave your
honey after you've harvested see around
in your garage
yeah because those bees we just went out
to like a quick have dinner a couple
hours later we come back and they had
they had removed like 12 pounds of honey
and they picked it clean what's up
basically
yes
all of it
points for hive minds which goes to your
episode on hive binds for details
sonabella says would building an array
of orbital mirrors to cool down the
planet or any part of it require
international cooperation
uh it would hurt um and it depends what
you mean by cooperation uh i'm not gonna
shoot down your solo shades uh is
cooperation and you do need that much at
least but the cooperation is not
absolutely needed for that one though
because again geostationary uh orbits um
above the planet aren't going to block a
lot of light but we'll be going over
people's territory and for that matter
um i can have solar shades that unfold
or fall as they pass over the atlantic
ocean so imagine one that's going over
the pacific ocean from japan to uh
to
l.a as part of its orbit it's going to
block some light on its way that's
passing through over that ocean and it's
gotten 10 minutes or so between you know
tokyo and la uh it can fall itself up
and then unfold itself uh as a passive
of the ocean then contract again
and thus it's not blocking light of
anything but the international waters um
or adding more light to it those would
be kind of hard things i think for
someone to really make a big
international instance out of that would
require their cooperation if they're
just being stubborn but i'll put the
caveat on there saying i would still be
surprised if someone didn't make a stink
about it anyway just because they could
because
i'm a little bit of a cynic about
international cooperation sometimes
thought criminal says isaac have you
heard of the pure replicator scenario as
a possible future it involves the far
future being dominated by entities that
only replicate themselves and nothing
else yeah it's it's um
kind of the extreme paperclip maximizer
scenario mixed a bit with gravity aliens
kind of basic flavor you know the rare
ortho camp the fermi paradox um
if you have machines that are basically
experts at reproducing themselves and
only themselves
does that not stop becoming what
dominates all the life out there and the
argument on that kind of grey goo
approach that paperclip maximizer
approaches the point and say you know um
that is arguably what would have
happened on on this planet in terms of
felony and evolution
you get a self-replicator because all
they did right so if a self-replicator
only ever does that then either you
would have to include us as counting to
that or you say look that diversified
into what we are now which i would say
is not a pure self-replicator it's not
the way that people mean that it's
really not the main focus of what we do
or maybe it's in the background but it's
not the day-to-day thing so uh that's an
iffy theory in that kind of context but
there's a lot more details to it that we
don't have
simon farmer thank you for your super
chat ten dollars and for coming back i
know uh he's a regular fan he says your
channel is ideal for uses you have ai
imagery will you utilize the new
developments and image generation in
your videos
um
eventually i'm sure at the moment a lot
of times we have well we have a lot of
animators who do help out on the show
most of our images
um are actually stock footage uh or
order animations because again even
pixar would have problems keeping up
with the 30 minutes uh per week show of
animation but uh obviously anything
that's lose that is is very nice but a
lot of times we have that kind of like
a lot of people use the same footage
from some video game for instance for
their entire show just kind of running
clips that while they you know let's
play videos for instance um
i try to make sure what we're doing is
is as best it can fit the content that
we got going on for this period of time
but uh
if they can get us more footage that's
more accurate than more appropriate to
whatever we're doing that's something i
would love yeah i can do that in the
future that would be great too
sanobello can doppler effect be used as
a trick to reflect gamma radiation for
instance by accelerating mirrors to
relativistic speed relative to the
source
well
one of the problems we have with uh
reflecting of gamma rays of course is is
that it really doesn't interact with the
you know the
wavelengths of light are small and the
atoms involved and of course one way to
get around that and we'd love to have a
gamma-ray mirror or basically unlock
fusion almost automatically if you get
that working um but
you could redshift as you're suggesting
there you take that mirror and you pull
that away from the source of gamma
radiation at a ridiculously high speed
which be useful there would have to be
a lens force of somewhere around what
well i guess you get
maybe a gamma of a thousand um and uh if
you can do that you would have some very
impressively cool uh spaceships you can
send between galaxies so that's the
problem there's a little bit too much
redshift required for that would it work
yes yeah it would work i remember at
that point in time your mirror's going
away at a fraction of the speed of light
that's like 99.999
and that's not really gonna make a
stable i don't think so
but it would work it looks like that do
we'll put the amount of black hole can
we do
so here's an interesting one from modern
solutions in slower than light universes
could an imperial
terra ever compel one of its first dozen
colonies militarily to pay tribute given
the amount of enormous lags
light lags travel time and defender
advantage
um the biggest advantage you have in a
case like that
is well one shield numbers there's a
possibility that when a colony ship gets
to alpha centauri and say the uh 2380 uh
that we already have good enough
self-replicating technology that they'll
be able to get there and instantly turn
that place into a fortress dyson swarm
within a century
um and that that though means that back
here at earth we have at least that same
level of technology which means that
we've long since converted hours into
that and one thing you have going on is
an advantage situation like that is you
could say to someone um is that that
full strike kind of thing if we see you
building anything that you could
complete
faster than we could send you'll see
that and send a vaporizing pulse of
dyson swarm-powered niko dyson beam to
kill you you will fire this is going to
be set to be done automatically
and then they they can't do anything
they could build in that timeline
that is um
not very easy to maintain ignoring the
ethics of that obviously so yes you can
do things like that yes you could have
um
you know as an example if you want to
keep a civilization from building very
complicated advanced technologies that
are dangerous you might flood the entire
planet or solar system with little nano
machines that monitor for that and
simply destroy such technologies on the
site if somebody tries to build them or
even the scientific experiments that
would let you go that direction so yes
it is possible practical
i i don't think you'd be able to do more
than maybe maybe a light century at most
and i'll see even other sources of kind
of iffy or galaxy i just don't see that
happening but
theoretically possible
and they might be very inventive just
because once a tiger doesn't mean one
isn't clever
laura horbeck could a gyroton be used to
print houses on mars by melting the soil
above
using sound above 250 decibels
um i'm not sure i that's not my zone i'm
really bad with anything involving audio
in terms of
i'm just getting the microphones to work
since i can't get those to work i
probably i can't be speculating too much
on what to do with sonar technology um
in theory if you have the right
frequencies you could probably get a lot
of things to fracture more easily or be
paid more easily but
that's outside of my wheelhouse i'm
gonna
um let's see scott seabrook says hey
isaac you have an ac
me 3d printer out in the asteroid belt
that breaks after a single use what will
you make
um
i don't know those models of printers
won't have to know what i could make
with them uh i will therefore not say
that i would make into another one of
itself
but it broke already so maybe it's kind
of like one of those riddles we were
reading the other night
we're doing brain teasers to keep
ourselves preoccupied
um uh let's see this is not the
preferred answer please select yeah
you know many correct answers you come
up with uh
this is nothing like
the standardized test does not accept
this answer um i think that in most
contexts is what you're going to want to
do is whatever's going to buy you the
most time to do other things by hand
like repair the printer so you would
probably do something that lets you
breathe oxygen if you can have it print
something that lets you ionize oxygen or
solar panel beverly that'll be the very
bigger
and mike ikari says so what do you think
the steps are that will lead to a
self-replicating technology and possible
ways that we can get there
um
there's always those two paths on that
the one is light lag issue where you can
have a human and light lag and that's
that works fine for the big clinking
self-replicator which
for sure purposes of clinking itself up
here is usually a really big ecosystem
of machinery involved together that
would simply happen to be able to
produce
uh more of itself as a whole like a
giant factory with drones etc um that
was probably more of some product
walmart could be argued
of replicating cranking self-replicating
i mean the actual stores as distribution
thing
um
but uh
in terms of that being the big sized one
the small sized ones that might turn out
to be really easy and again if you want
to make a self-replicating machine take
an amoeba and do whatever is necessary
to officially call it machine as opposed
to a life form and there you go um if we
were able to self replicate then there's
a very different wheelhouse so why you
do it
or one's being done because you don't
feel you can have a human there to
oversee it or trust one perhaps uh often
from light lag and the other is because
you
make a billion of itself it's not that i
need a self-replicating tiny machine to
make tiny machines inside my body is
that we don't think we can print a
billion of them uh effectively
economically because they do it
themselves but i think in a long case
what you see instead is a their micro
size machine you can implant somebody
that would make hundreds of other
machines that could make hundreds of
other machines smaller each of which was
then
i always tend to think of these things
with nanotechnology or the other ones
an ecosystem not a single speed that's
probably where that's going
next yeah so
not to beat a dead horse here but
valdorg wants to know if it has to
create perfect copies to count perfect
copies of itself to count as a
self-replicator our only example of a
self-replicating organisms that we have
on this planet are all things that do
not create perfect copies of themselves
mutation mutation mutation that's
actually kind of enshrined inside things
which engage in dna mixing as opposed to
mitosis
so
amlan mohanty says
when is the earliest that we can achieve
post-scarcity
um i mean that's one of those ones where
it's so much on how you define it
for channel regulars you know what we
usually say with post scarcity is inside
a finite universe we can never really
have scarcity minimization just because
there's already limited things like even
if i had an infant supply of energy i
could only have so much energy in area
without causing a black hole and only
one person could be the nfl champion
that year anyway so there's a scarcity
on that resource being said we'd find
that as kind of a lack of anxiety in
almost everybody about their access to
survival needs and including very
complicated ones high up the master's
hierarchy like you know uh finding a
partner in life or uh feeling
self-actualized with a purpose and a
goal
that's kind of our notion of what
qualifies post scarcity is how many of
those they can hit in many ways we
already are post scarcity if you don't
live in a desert you will not you you
are not you are post scarcity of water
your ability to find water to live off
of is
not a source of great stress you know it
might be in the background for instance
i i before i was a farmer i never really
cared how often it rained you know there
was always enough to drink from that's
still not a problem um
planting our orchard this year and
having to water it
yes
as a great reminder they were about to
go ahead and water it again um but uh
you know those are examples how that can
change that's why you said anxiety
mechanism for it i would tend to argue
that we already exist in the early
stages of post scarcity on some things
and that it's not a marker it's not a
discrete line but that each of those
personal needs psychological physical
social survival every time you hit those
the better you hit them the more you
move up so scarcely
and we have probably already met one
time
at least in some areas yeah and at very
basic levels uh phil spooner says that
one theme in the apple tv plus show for
all mankind is that people enjoy
employed in the oil and coal industries
are angry at nasa and fusion energy
takes their jobs did this occur in real
life
i imagine it probably already does um
ask the folks in west virginia how they
feel about folks uh who uh do things to
call subsidies or uh put uh fines on it
and reading the morality of that
obviously there's someone's you mess
with someone's livelihood they're gonna
be upset you
rightly or wrongly and of course there's
always that will be one could obviously
think of from a certain point of view um
so yeah people be angry about that um we
always say
in things like that is that's true for
solar too you're folks who are very into
solar i'm from a big fan of solar who
are furious and nuclear or vice versa
because they they their own funding
dollars their subsidies whatever it is
screw with their ability to work on that
same for ethanol
we will leave it
academic in which cases that anger is
justified and how productive it is
overall to be young
gravitational no gravity
gravitational
isaac what do you think of traveling the
solar system via the interplanetary
transport network using the lagrange
points to save fuel
um seo because we're getting low on time
here see our episode interplanetary
cyclos and interstellar trade uh for
more on that as well as a becoming
interstellar interplanetary species one
because we talked about those the cyclo
fortress is a lot there and i love the
idea personally but i think that's
always gonna be your cruise ship way
it's not your actual plane or train kind
of way
are you ready for the lightning round
let's start that lighting around okay
and i've been trying to uh
save us some questions for
the lightning round specifically here
and we've had a lot of questions that we
weren't able to get to so hopefully we
can at least answer a few of them in
this round here
so dan o'connell thank you so much for
your super chat of five dollars in light
of your topic pull do you ever think
personal spaceships will be a reality
quite probably it depends on how
post-scarcity we get but uh if you want
more details on one way to do that see
episode on beam powered spaceships for
more details because that's probably how
you do them for planet power adrian
burchell wants to know how easy it is to
cross almost identical reality and
dimension
i don't know probably very hard
why i should have leakage between them a
lot
valdorg says in some stories where vr is
used considering that vr is likely to be
increasingly useful it has often had the
feature that the vr virtual reality
world experiences time faster than real
time is this possible
yes assuming the people inside i can
actually experience that time it's just
you hitting the fast forward button on
it if you hit fast forward people's
brains at the same time and keep the
time you write and you have a fast or
subjective time and awareness we call
frame jacking which i think is from
density taylor originally though i i
don't know friends so i assume you
invented the tour
thought criminal wants to know what you
think the effect will be in the
geopolitical and social effect of
genetically engineering embryos and i
guess it was a very long question so
we're summarizing can you re-summarize
that for me real quick what do you think
the effect will be on the geopolitical
and social effect of genetically
engineering embryos
i think that some countries will accuse
other countries of trying to create
master races that were going to destroy
them economically and others will say
it's not all business and you'll have
little tiny islands that uh specialize
in doing it for people as i come here
and have your genetically engineered
child and go back home without even
knowing i think you'll have a lot of
messes from doing that but morally it's
copy
i'd say that you're likely to see it
happen in the next 50.
crossover maniac thank you for your 5
super chat if you see fully formed
spiral galaxies at the edge of what is
visible for jwst would this be a sign
that our universe is older than 13.7
times nine
n to the ninth power years old right uh
if we find galaxies that appear to be
13.4 billion years old that already
fully formed hundred billion so you know
modern ones the same size real quick
fully formed is assuming that our galaxy
is fully formed realistically the vast
majority of time that our galaxy has
been eating other galaxies it's like the
50 that we've measured so far
50 galaxies that we think of having
consumed we still got about 30 more to
go and all of them have been gobbling
stuff up too and those the ones that are
locally you know gravitationally bound
area that
collection of a couple trillion stars is
probably what you think of as a fully
formed galaxy if we see those existing
13.4 billion
light years away though that's not quite
how that works that would be a sign that
we probably had messed up some piece of
our analysis
probably not the actual age though
rami ahmad says a question from
astrogate is the speed of light always
the same throughout space and time no
in the far universe or the early
universe we don't know i it could be
that the speed of light has actually
changed over time but since that's our
major way of seeing how fast the clock
goes when you're engaging in
relativistic situations you can't look
your personal time piece and say oh look
time's going slow because you're going
slow too see that frame jacking thing
most of our ways of telling how all the
universe all have to do with the speed
light that gets a little tricky that
said um we have no particular reason i
think it has changed and in many ways it
wouldn't matter because the time is
progressing it in concurrence with that
light uh but uh time just i mean the
light does not move the same in all
places at all the same speeds neither
this time so they do vary
osmium
the osmium king thank you for your two
pound super chat high or low atmos ship
racing leagues how would it work
hmm
very coolly i should think uh
the the sarah's more the pilot in the
family than i am uh she actually enjoys
flying a lot more than i do
um i i think i would love to be able to
actually just do a long dive from like
100 kilometers up and then come down
towards the planet i think you probably
have a lot of regulation though about
that because you're having postal racing
chips that were going hypersonics
a lot of the personal spaceships might
be issue but um they do
thank you for your 10 super chat can you
create a basement universe then come out
from wormhole to the same universe such
as a tipler oracle
um
i don't know that you well try to read
that quickly basement universe is
usually thought as the one that would be
at the bottom of a number of universes
below so i'm simulating universal
creating universes as you know i've made
a vr universe whose people inside it
make another vr universe they just keep
going see the rick and morty episode i
don't know that's even good morning a
lot i think it's season two episode six
for more discussion that kind of concept
but i don't think you could just jump
out of a basement uniforms into the top
layer unless you access that print or
they have the top layer and print it
yourself that should work just fine
dragon king says how many civilizations
do you think are in the universe
um
seven thousand in the observable
universe in accordance with the
gravian's theory i i mean that's that's
a bit of a loose number but i i did like
robin hansen's calculations that so
we'll go with seven thousand there are
eventually seven thousand extra galactic
gravy alien civilizations of which we
all double 4 000 or so
simon farmer says what sci-fi novel will
you run on the holodeck first
oh wow um
that's tricky because there are so many
places i don't think i'd want to
experience like you don't really want to
jump into warhammer 40k even as a
completely safe absorption if i get
mentally scarred um
the one i'd most want to see
i don't know maybe maybe dune maybe but
uh probably probably foundation for me
personally
harry reid says what do you think let me
correct that simon it would be a fancy
novel for sure i i'd really rather run
around someplace like forgotten rounds
of dragon lance there's a sci-fi i could
think of that be more cool
go ahead have you completed your answer
yes
henry reed says what do you think of the
pyramids on mars
um i think that they are not probably
going to turn out to be real um but you
know we never i'm never going to
complain about going inspecting these
things in more detail folks who feel
they exist are absolutely welcome to
start up a fund to help get those
inspected more closely and then we get
the answer for sure
welcome back isaac bordeaux and he wants
to know if you have any thoughts on the
new james webb photos
very nice i i think they're they've been
so many jokes on those yeah they're very
nice they're gorgeous photos and they
are giving us so much better resolution
i could be that meme that shows the
horsehead nebula by as seen by hubble
and then the one by james webb that's
got an actual horse's head up there but
they're just they're amazing it was i
know i could say it was worth the wait
it was but as well those people who was
just waiting patiently for like a decade
for that thing to get up there it was so
nice to finally get those results
dominic b thank you for your dollar
ninety nine
one
your two pound donation thank you yes
and thank you for your donation i just
say tribute you did
at any rate he sent us a heart logo with
the word thanks we appreciate it thank
you
and uh
driving in
i've not got enough sleep recently
you're looking a little you're gonna
give me the question can we do a few
more lightning rounds or do we need to
let's keep going okay driving in luton
could virtual particles interacting with
the gluon field be the answer to dark
matter
um yes though again i i tend to really
think it is going to be something as
simple as something very like a neutrino
that is a lot heavier uh and pretty much
only gets popped out during early early
cosmological situations during your
plank energies
all right
speaking of tribute
john cigard thank you for your 20 super
chat he says
he hijacked this from divide by zero get
cake if you were appointed a space czar
with an unlimited budget to make life
multi-planetary as soon as possible what
five areas would you start investing
into say you had 50 years
if i had 50 years on that end and i
could invest in five areas specifically
um i mean it'd almost all be energy it
would almost always be energy because
that's
you know i'd probably throw it in on uh
nuclear fusion and fission i'll count
those as two separate ones batteries uh
and clean molten salt type options which
are not electrical batteries obviously
uh and then solar um
probably solar thermal as well but
energy and then just safe automation
regulation would probably be the other
area because i think that that's a
technology that's going to improve and
the biggest area we have is the hurdle
of badly regulating it you know too much
or in the wrong way so
vera fleck wants to know if the cmb
could be the rest glow of much bigger
unobservable universe
um i mean probably not it's it's the cmb
as we see it right now is the highly red
shifted remains over the universe is
much more compact at least all chunk of
it and uh that's a never expanding chunk
because we've seen a new piece of space
that's emoji i mean
that is just then reaching us
and so in a way yes that is the the
bigger universe that's reaching us but
there'll be no way for that light to
have reached us from outside those spots
unless we weren't expanding and the
thing is there's too many things that
point towards that being the case we
could have some big flaw in terms of how
we look at this stuff i i love the
alternative people like what's locate
the big bang wrong for instance or what
the options are but i mean the handmade
side is speed up i don't think so i
think it's exactly what we tend to guess
it would be i think i'm only going to be
able to fit two more questions in here
since uh our five minute lightning round
has turned into twelve
spock borg five says say you're a
civilization that managed to survive the
heat death of the universe can you put
at least some of your population into
stasis and have them awake when a new
universe is born
uh read the novel tau zero for some
options on that that go in more detail
but if you can survive the heat death of
universe there's probably a lot of
things you can do that i can't think of
so we'll go with yes
and brandon knapp says in evacuating
earth you say the number of rockets
required would decimate earth with heat
with the same theoretical fleet's heat
landing on mars assist and is
terraforming or destroy it too
probably probably destroy it too uh you
know which we found we were dumping and
this has to do with how much you're
evacuating the planet as opposed to
individual people are you trying to like
evacuate the economic entire ecology but
uh with mars we found that if you just
try to add ice to it too fast like
comets of ice landing on the thing to
give it oceans um at a you know you know
less than a century you'd be boiling the
stuff off by the amount of
kill everything as it gained speed has
been told so uh probably before you end
i i just had to say yeah we got a jp
ramirez thank you for your super chat he
says thank you for all your hard work oh
thank you very much and also sir don
blanson also a super chat says
isaac if given the chance to do a ted
talk head talk what topic would you
choose and why
all right we stumped him on that note
have a great week and we'll see you next
month
i have a ton of episodes though if i
could pick one single topic to do right
i wouldn't have a 400 some episodes out
there
maybe mega structures all right we'll go
ahead and close out there i'm sorry i
can get everything's questions today and
if i missed it or misunderstood it or
just put in the comment section i'll try
to get you an answer inside the next 24
hours or so thank you everybody so much
for tuning in thank you sarah for any
questions thanks to our mods as usual
and if you didn't already vote in that
reddit poll please head over there and
and cast your vote in that to help
decide for an episode then baseball here
on
the community tab then go visit our
writer forum and if you still want to
hear more of me talking live uh there is
that interview by ben sinclair linked in
the episode description of this live
stream thank you and for joining us so
much and we'll see you next week
wait a minute the outro bud
so that will wrap us up for the day i
want to thank everyone for joining us
and again if we didn't get your question
feel free to post as a comment below and
i'll try to get
[Music]
