one of the awesome options of launch
systems like Mass drivers lofstrom
launch loops and oal Rings is they let
you accelerate a ship to high speed
without onboard propellants much like an
electric train there is no theoretical
maximum speed you can launch cargo out
from these but if we're assuming
passengers should not exceed 1 G of
acceleration for protracted periods then
one of the best launcher options is an
orbital ring over the equator that
people ride in while upside down once
the launch vehicle reaches the ring it
begins to accelerate at 2G while
flipping its roof down toward Earth
Earth's 1g of downward gravity will
cancel out one of those 2gs of
centrifical force allowing passengers to
experience regular gravity toward the
floor while we accelerate in a loop and
leave at 25,000 mph or 11 km/ second as
we discussed in interplanetary
infrastructure multiple concentric
layers of these Rings might make
highspeed interplanetary travel vastly
cheaper
