a solar math is a very simple design
with few failure modes and a solar moth
might use very nearly anything that can
be vaporized as a propellant including
common elements in deep space like
hydrogen water methane or ammonia making
them a potentially good engine for
probes and long-term monroes in the
asteroid belts or Kuiper belts
geared up a solar moth is a good way to
move a comet simply using as propellant
as energy beam to it from in system will
create far less outward thrust than the
energy received being used to vaporize
ice and shove inward toward the Solar
System's inner regions solo Sailors
operate on the principle that photons of
light carry momentum which may be
absorbed by opaque objects transferring
that momentum or reflected by reflective
objects or mirrors which can double the
imparted momentum setting the photon
back with the same but opposite momentum
or deflecting in an angle to send both
sail and deflected Photon off in
different directions this allows a
sailor to cord or sunlight
