in futurism circles there's often the
question of how big you can build Mega
structures space habitats and artificial
planets it inevitably depends on the
materials available and their strengths
and routine habitats are limited in
their diameter though not length by the
tenso strength of the material they are
made out of one approach suggested by
Danny Eder in 1995 is to emulate a
Balloon by having a shell around a large
concentration of gas where the pressure
of the gas pushes back against the
weight of the shell and habitat built
inside the shell he proposed the Shell
at just under half a million kilm wide
37 times wider than Earth and a dozen
times more massive with the shell itself
over 1,000 km thick and with 2% of
normal Earth Gravity by adding more
hydren or helium or thickening the
surface we actually would shrink the
habitat but also add gravity to it to be
more earthlike see the mega structural
compendium for more mindboggling
constructs
