good afternoon everyone and welcome to
the sfia monthly live stream q a
we'll get started in just a moment but
go ahead and start getting your
questions in the chat window so our
monorails can start relaying those
tubing as soon as we start please try to
keep the questions concise and watch
your spelling and try to be polite to
others in the chat we usually go for
about an hour so you probably want to
grab a drink and a snack though we'll
take a break about halfway through too
with all that said welcome and let's get
started
good afternoon everyone and welcome to
another live stream q a session here on
sfia where we take your questions live
from the chat and my wife relays them to
me and we go ahead and answer them as
best as we can as usual Sarah fellow my
Blobby co-host will be getting your
questions out from there but the mods
that normally help out with that aren't
online just yet so we may be going a
little bit slow also someone asked right
before we got started if we go with the
physics based game to get a special
answer in there and I went with an
audience a classic if one half chickens
lay one half eggs in one half days how
many chickens do nine sorry how many
eggs do nine chickens lay in nine days
so if you can answer that I don't think
it was actually put in the answer yet
uh you'll get your question special
answered do we have any get started
we have a few answers so far but as you
already mentioned they're not correct uh
we had a few guesses at nine the trick
question that half chickens can't lay
half eggs which is trickly true
um
someone that would like to see a half a
chicken lay half of an egg we're looking
for the mathematical you know the
mathematician Sam so not the engineer or
physicist answer on this one so
for all purposes today it won't have
chickens can lay what a half eggs
someone else said they're craving
chicken and eggs so I'm wondering you
know what happens if in that nine day
period Waffle House we haven't actually
been to the waffle house together have
we
there will be a few Waffle House
we have a few answering 81 after you
said the mathematician answer and
us if one half chickens they one and a
half eggs in one and a half days how
many eggs do nine chickens lay in nine
days that's the one trick question back
how many eggs can tin roosters play over
10 days depends on
in a different life a year before we got
married and I never saw a rooster lay an
egg yet that one we can answer with
certainty so
uh moving on here we have a uh just a
preliminary question
someone wants to know if we were
affected by the chemical spill in East
Palestine
um that was about 60 miles south of us
as the crow flies something along those
lines so we're up by the lake that's
more the Youngstown area so it's not
that uh I mean the wind would blowing
North maybe but I think it was more of
Northeast for the during the born so
um I didn't see any size I didn't spell
it a lot of our friends obviously all
live before the Southwest in the county
in the west of sales District yeah but
not so much where we're at so we seem to
be fine so
yes that that would appear to be the
case so far
in other words we have a question here
from floor horbeck in other words can
RFD send its signal through metal cars
for a sensor to receive it or does it
need more power like CIA tags or
something was this one from a dangerous
object tagging for products
um the kind of the idea that you could
tag objects
um you know like a dangerous object so
that it couldn't enter a certain
perimeter right it's like a safety
mechanism uh like a handgun Flint is not
to enter a courthouse
um you could certainly tag things that
way the problem is one of the things we
have in terms like automatic shopping
we'll go to the shop and just have
things you know ring up you might know
that one commercial from almost veto
MasterCard which show this guy looks
like he's shoplifting but he walks out
it just automatically Rings up they wave
them goodbye uh because he's not going
through any like self scale or something
like that the problem with doing that
which I would love to do because it
would save so much money right is that
uh RF is not very reliable at distance
or through interference you know
um there are ways around that but I
think you're more likely the automatic
scanning technology like the built in to
see what's skinny inside it you just put
a scan on the cards or you just do it
like what Sam's Club does which is a
little scanner you can just scan as you
go on your phone use that nice little
computer scale there and just bring it
up on the way out
um obviously that's there's a lot of
things that have to fall into place
correctly for that to really become
viable it's still in what I'd say
prototyping phase and all comments these
days but same for like protected things
like a Hazmat object not to be able to
move does you also have to make sure no
one has a way to remove the RF tag for
instance so that could be easier said
than done
um
the nuclear strong force range and
polarity be manipulated so as to make it
work as a form of artificial gravity or
artif alternatively as a protective
force field what was again
nuclear strong forces range and polarity
you mean switch around so well the
nuclear strong force the gluon right
effectively the blue one
um holds together nucleons well quarks
54 um
that is of course to get stronger for
the way you are it's things like a
spring you have two quarks being held
together with a glue on for instance you
start pulling those apart right and the
string pulls harder and harder and
harder and you exert more and more
energy to break it and when it snaps all
that energy
turns it into two new particle pills so
either these two particles apart and the
energy I have to do that formed another
particle attached to each one of them
that's how production happens
um I don't know how you would cause that
to flip over so that it was like the
other way around but I think if you did
if it suddenly was like wow now this
Force gets weak or over distance I'm
pretty sure all matter in the area would
immediately Fall Apart so I'm not sure I
probably understood that question but I
don't see how that would work out very
well might make for a great weapon we
have an episode I just got to everybody
called warpy reality where we talk about
a lot of those options so
will filipi welcome he says it's his
first time joining us for a live stream
welcome we're very glad to have you
Raven says what are your thoughts on
there being more planets beyond the
Kuiper belt
more plants beyond the Kuiper belt
um yes we already have I mean Fallout is
past the cop belt I think the usual
definition for the kype about is that
it's 30 to 50 a.u out
um and I might have those numbers a
little bit off though but I think it's
supposed to be done by the time you get
to 100 Au and I know it's a little boy
between like the scattered disc versus
the Kuiper belt uh and they all at least
two plants out there at this one's that
we know of
um they're calling Fallout and fall fall
out and they're out way past even
Hawaiian
the other two plants we discovered in
the early 2000s name for various
Hawaiian gods and memory cells or
possibly Easter Island guards and then
the other one heiress which I believe
was a little bit bigger than Pluto that
kind of raised the whole dwarf planet
issue in the first place
um and I think that one's out past the
Kuiper belt too but it has the more
things are out there oh yeah I'd be
really shocked if we didn't find wads
and wads and wads of dwarf planets out
there
is the 11th old Paradox a great filter
it says the chances for a protein
folding naturally are 10 to the 300th
power do we need to find a rare ETA
Earth first and then apply these odds
afterwards this is a question from
Reverend RV yeah you know that might be
more of a biophysics question but let
those Paradox has to do with the idea
that
1440 is very unlikely to occur
um and that original ones will be very
hard to do and I'm gonna have to mostly
punt on that question because I don't
know what the coin stay to play on the
probabilities they all I know there's
been I remember this mostly as a
question of people debating a lot what
the odds should be because we didn't
have enough modeling data yet but I feel
like if I answer that one I'm as likely
as not to get it just wrong wrong so
we'll punt on that one sorry but
fundamentally anything that would
decrease the odds of proteins occurring
14 any macromolecules that we need for
Life occurring that would be a huge
possibility for initiating uh life on
planets so yeah so it'd be a potential
good great filter if the odds were low
10 to the 300 it definitely would be
very low
I have a question here from Arturo your
Torres how many galaxies Escape forever
Out Of Reach each second as the
cosmological Event Horizon expands
probably less than one per second I let
me think on this one real quick because
we kind of hard
um I want to say let's say there's a
hundred billion galaxies that will be in
the area that would leave in the next uh
100 but most will do in the next 10
billion years I think but let's say it
was 100 billion galaxies that would flee
over the course of 10 billion years keep
the math code of magnitude accurate and
fast that would be 10 per year that we'd
be losing
um
in which case obviously that would be
like one for every three hundred
thousand well three million seconds
sorry uh it could be as high as one per
day I don't think it's high in that
though again napkin math it can be kind
of hard to even be hitting the right
order of matter too and I'm not that
good at any of those numbers fats I
would say that if we were even losing
one poor day I'd be surprised though but
it is faster right now as things you
know there's so much more of it on the
edge and slowing away so
so here's an interesting question from
nolano when and at what point do you
think that technology will hit
diminishing returns such as life in one
million years looks more like life in 10
million years than life today looks like
life last century
um
you know because again Society isn't
really all that driven by technology we
we already fixate on that but technology
didn't change that much between say 0
A.D and 580.
um you can obviously I'm sure I'm gonna
get some historians writing me notes
about how much it did change but it's
nothing competitive we have happened in
one decade nowadays
um
but at the same time most of the reason
why it seems like history doesn't change
much in that time is because most time
we're lucky if we have one book per year
to actually you know reference against
in that era and it doesn't there's no
reason to think Sally was very stacked
then when it was a very technologically
driven you could find Euros where there
wasn't much going on our problem is that
mostly they've all recorded written bits
off from Empires that were busy
improving technology and doing new
things but they are vast chunks of human
history where technology in a given area
really did not change but that culture
did and I believe we're not expected it
would be a kind of a stagnant period
where human history has been sold we are
just very I'd say
we may have some blinders on from
assuming that technology is the driving
force of all cultural it's certainly a
big one but I think we'll cut around to
assume that there's like all things will
come to an end if we find out that we
solve the last technological problem I
don't see that happening so
we have a couple of super chats here I
just want to shout out to Vince Cleaver
thank you he says I'm happy that the Kim
train hasn't harmed you and kedri
Ayala I enjoy your super suit videos and
I'm designing my own
good idea if you like well let's say my
usual advice to people well it was easy
to get into YouTube like 15 to 10 years
ago and about when I got in it was
starting to get hard it is always still
if you've got a if you've got a topic
that you really believe in right I mean
if you actually have material you want
to create for other people to enjoy you
know just want to be a YouTube Star then
you should do it period it might not
work out well it might surprise you when
it throws out a few other people
actually watch it you know but whatever
it is it's very rarely a bad idea to put
something quality out that talks about
something that people should want to
know
so
I I'm enjoying watching all of the
different answers for the chicken and
egg question but we're good I hope I
didn't miss you know somebody should
recognize that one it was a classic one
out of Mensa there's an Isaac asthma of
um story uh in one of his robot novels
where that's the question they asked the
uh the computer but uh if I wholly
misstated that one uh go with the answer
that's actually supposed to be
here's what I think someone was putting
as a rhetorical question if there's 100
to one Rogues to stars there could be
Rogues between solar systems and say
Alpha Centauri
[Laughter]
um Christian corello thank you for your
super chat if there's nothing an
advanced species would want or need
material leave from a lesser one would
the main incentive for absorbing less
Advanced species into their empire be
the satisfaction of ruling others
um maybe for some people the thing is
never to think of a society as as mono
maniacal right most people like when I
was in the military uh within the Army
we'd ask people why did you join and
they'd usually give one of like six or
ten different reasons and everybody was
ex-military probably knows this one you
know those couldn't handle off the top
of your head too I want to go see places
hey want to give away for like a bad
love whatever it was there's a bunch of
reasons want to pay for college Etc and
everyone have one they went to that was
their kind of go-to answer but it wasn't
there with six or ten answers they
wouldn't subscribe to so much as they
were six or ten answers that at least
half of them would be true for the
individual person
people rarely do things for just one
motivation that require a real effort
they we stack them up like we until we
get to that potential they just go do
something especially something really
complex or hard uh like you know moving
to go join the military or invading
across half a Galaxy into the capable
planet and that's an individual when you
start dealing with a big civilization
there's gonna be tons of other
motivations involved you go start a war
and some people might be like wait great
we're gonna go free that group of people
other people say great I can finally saw
all these guns I've been buying up you
know there's going to be many different
factors of playing motivations Aston I
thought someone's gonna enjoy ruling
people
there's always the chance that something
like that would qualify as a kind of a
mental health issue uh to some degree or
another and if that was the case I do
tend to assume that advanced
civilizations will tend to solve things
like that
um you know that like you wouldn't have
people with very extreme off-putting
social problems because they be viewed
as a health issue be fixed in the
hospital like a Miss Even Finkle you
know
but that's a guess Albert Jackson
welcome back it says good afternoon
Isaac and Sarah with all the recent AI
news in the past month about chat GPT
and Bing I've been wondering what sort
of effects will it the sentence have by
the end of the century by the end of it
some
figure on real AI like the classic AI
already being out by then
um I really don't know that
automatically leads to Super Genius AI
it just means it would look like a lot
of capacities but you know if you have a
chat bot that's able to simultaneously
carry on 500 conversations with people
at once that doesn't mean it's a super
Godlike intelligence any more than a big
Piston machine that could lift for 500
people would be
um you we have a lot of tools that
outperform humans in this or that
category and we've kind of narrowed it
down saying only mental ones were the
characters of the physical ones they
just kind of narrow that down to only
creative ones there's probably no
individual task a human can do that we
couldn't make a machine specialized to
do that one job
um so there's going to be a lot of
concerns with asking a deal the AI
problems are ones will kind of know too
it's just chat GPT and AI out of the
last couple months has been kind of
raising the ball making people more
notice it because it's conversations or
something visual like that you can see
kind of click that button but none of
that stuff is actually all that profound
in terms of AI research it's just this
is the first kind of publicly visible
example Deputy was like that's new and
cool let's say well that's that's pretty
much something we've been doing in other
bits for the last decade too this is
just specialized so the effect of course
though I mean look at that in machine
Rebellion pay-per-click maximizer we
want to see even while cyborgs the
Android series we'll go into that more
detail good and bad depends mostly on
how careless stupid or um restrained we
are using this stuff
Michael says what would be the most
efficient way to transform the solar
system into the most surface area for
habitation
um
you first have to decide if you need it
to be like
we usually say well the sun produces two
billion times more light than Earth uses
therefore we can make two billion times
that surface area for the sun uh the
other one that people would say is well
Dyson Sphere will be the same distance
wide as as the Earth is from the Sun and
of course that last one is not the case
because we don't get sunlight on the
planet all day long we would fry if we
got you know that amount of sunlight all
day long
um
I should actually be more wides like
where Mars is at and then you decide how
much sunlight you actually need you know
you could do something like an Alderson
disc for instance we put statites over
the pool of the sun to kind of give it a
big reflective thing down of our huge
wide plane there's a lot of ways to do
that but it only control factor is is
the sun your only power source
oh you modifying the sun in some way and
oh you fixated on having exactly the
Earth level of light because there's
ways you could have plants growing quite
robustly on about a tenth of the
sunlight that's actually produced
especially if you uh say upcycling you
have something that's like style boost
uh stall boosting
um you could also just be adding
infusion reactors fake Suns black oil
generos things like that fundamentally
you decide how much sunlight you need in
terms of habitable area and then you
figure out what the output of the Sun or
everything else is and for the sun it's
four times ten to the 26 Watts and or
3.86 was right there 3.84
um and then you just divide it by how
much sunlight we get which by a thousand
Watts at solo noon so uh then you just
turn that into whatever your foot answer
is based on your power output and how
much sunlight you want but about more
than a bill you know it's probably less
than 10 realistically unless you stop
boosting your power supply
Isaac bordeau wants to know how old an
astronomy book needs to be before it's
considered outdated
uh
I'm going to give you the answer that
one of my professors who actually
published is trying to be textbooks was
which was uh before it actually bashed
hit the Press uh it takes a couple of
years to go through the you know review
process on a textbook that's why those
these long steady editions
um
you know there's a lot of the books that
I read when I was a kid we had this one
astronomy like this whole bookcase on
kids astronomy books at a library in
Madison Ohio it's very nice and uh some
of those books from the 1950s which is
the time we were talking about molecular
gas clouds and you know it it would not
have looked like what we had now Mercury
was the hottest planet Venus was
probably a paradise I actually read
those as a kid while at the same time
with these beautifully autistic ones
that were coming out from Isaac Asimov
uh they were also shorts again with the
series was called but it's like three
pages of mostly pictures and a little
bits of text in the kids it was a great
explanation but there were other things
around there there's a Jupiter has the
most moons at 16 well now it's like 64
and I think Saturn's got one more
identified than Jupiter right now it
changes a lot there might be thousands
of asteroids while turns out there's
Millions
um yeah I mean galaxies are so I would
say
if it's not inside the most recent
decade don't rely on it unless it's
something that we know we like haul it
in there they're not going to change how
far away we're curious from the Sun or
what the rotational speed of Moses or
things like that but uh you know I would
basically say textbooks are mostly
I you know I'm not going to say that
because I was going to say mostly
useless these days I know too many
people who publish them
um textbooks are often
gonna be limited to talk about new
materials they say it's just the speed
of the information updates
DJ Drake says what are your thoughts
that the first exoplanet that we visit
is in fact a rogue
um either qualifying a rogue as an
exoplanet that I could kind of debatable
um I think you probably would I would
say the answer is probably pretty high
uh well there are plans around Alpha
Centauri and that's likely be a big push
it's kind of like malls I can make some
very good arguments why Mars is not the
best place to colonize first at the same
time it's probably the first place we're
gonna have a mad mission to besides uh
the moon maybe a neo-worth asteroid
might win out but it's probably gonna be
mall it's not gonna go with colonized
Venus Force for the same reason the
first place we're going is Alpha
Centauri or Proxima we got plants around
both of those now that we've identified
so if we find some Rogue plant that's
within one light year that's actually a
really good plan worth visiting yeah
otherwise nah
Phantom says what do you think the
future of public transportation will
look like
you're the first in the key to mind was
the uh it was the show Futurama where
they got the old like messenger tubes
you could send a bottle of message in
um
but they had people push it through
um you know that
I would say the future of public
transportation is probably something on
the alliance of uh ubo but scale it up a
little bit more uh and that might
actually be in some case a part of a
public system you're going to have your
trains your buses you have your
individual calls and you have people who
own individual cars and you have people
who are more commercially intended cars
and you have people who kind of Airbnb
their car where it's like this robot car
will come pick you up instead automated
Vehicles is definitely the future
whether that's human assisted or machine
assisted human driven ones or purely
automated ones isn't a yes or no answer
and there's gonna be a role for both of
those in there and you're not going to
waste time and I'll have you like
how many cars you need versus how many
cars are actually on the road at even
time most of us don't spend all day
driving on vehicle flip side
time whales Vehicles down but mileage is
what most of the Rails Vehicles down
like we need to replace all police cars
here usually what three years is pretty
long for police cruise already isn't it
you're sure
um but you know the other places very
quickly and asks the mileage you know uh
whereas you know your trucks you might
run for 30 40 years old that are still
completely good repair just for the
upkeep and have a lot of mileage on them
too so
um the question then becomes is it more
convenient to have additional vehicles
or to maximize how much time they're
actually on the road per vehicle and
that's very economically specific and I
don't think I could ask that question
says what do you think of bubble Habs do
we have the technology to build a
city-sized dome or pressurized balloon
that can float yeah yeah I mean
um
the idea of a bubble Hab is essentially
let's say we're on Venus uh when Venus
the atmosphere slowly gets less dense as
you go up of course uh but there's a
spot where it's about the same density
as oxygen right and the way it's
actually a semi sane temperature on
lighting and so you can feel a you know
fill a big old balloon full of oxygen
and nitrogen or you know and not even
need to use helium then because it would
just float in place
um and it really couldn't fall that fall
down so it would just keep floating back
up
um
or you might do a mixture of oxygen
nitrogen and something they don't like
hear the Eminem would have very high
voices you know maybe you remove like 20
of nitrogen replace it with helium and
it floats easy but we'll have some
definitely doable the thing is that you
have a very limited amount of mass you
know this is why we don't really use
blimps that much as they have to be big
which means there's a lot of air
resistance and they don't really carry
that much mass so the other factor of
course is going to be something very
strong that isn't going to leak and
isn't going to you know um massively
leak fight accidentally shoot it with a
gun or something so we'll stick it with
a screwdriver and
um at the risk of any people are very
big fans of blimps because so am I I
think you have a lot of people who are
very hesitant to really make a community
based around something that was floating
by buoyancy making an industry because
that's where you suck up all your
volatiles uh that you're going to ship
off to Mars or you know sucks up all
your helium 3 you're usually for a new
track fusion you know those that's an
option right making a resort that people
visited you know because they really
want to see what Venus was like that's
an option but I suspect in most cases
the population expansion would be an
orbital objects that were orbiting not
not floating hard to say and Depends a
lot on people's confidence Factor
foreign
I was just laughing at some of the
comments on some of your uh
a commentary you will have to go through
them afterwards
um hopefully not too bad you you had a
question earlier that I was looking for
again regarding
um
and I was trying to find where it went
do you want to come back and find out to
another one
no I was trying to find it I think I'm
really close to it so like going back to
the eggs thing I think it came to mind
also because we were thinking about
getting an incubator for our kids so we
figured as we get into into the um
because I eat a lot of eggs but uh I
like I like power breakfast I like your
big you know heavy breakfast to get
started for the day too so but uh I
thought it'd be a good thing for them to
do is to kind of raise some chickens
anyway and see what used to do that as a
profession back when she was a teenage
also well we didn't actually sell that
was it the early 20s I was 11. yeah when
you got rid of the business uh
sold at 23. yeah okay so Office business
so okay this is a combination of two
people's question because I thought they
fit together Timothy Kuiper had said hi
Isaac would you consider doing an
episode in the theme of Star Trek's
Mirror Universe perhaps you could be the
benevolent Emperor where everyone got a
drink and a snack
and I was coupling it with a question
here from
uh silkath
I can't pronounce the last name if you
could command the smartest one percent
to focus on one topic for the next 50
years what would you have them work on
okay God
um
you know think about what qualifies the
smartest one percent is that it's very
hard to actually keep them focused on
any one specific thing
um you know I've I've had the unique
ability well not unique by any means but
the relatively real chance to work with
really smart people in large groups on
several occasions and what I've mostly
found is that they can only do that for
a very short period of time before they
all wander off on their own things
because it's almost like there's an
intention span thing like with toddler
or a puppy dog or cat they got very
little attention span and then a human
learns to get more attention as a good
order and wiser and but then for some
reason the higher creativity levels
which is not safe to higher wisdom
levels you certainly see that attention
span flub you off sometimes so
I mean I
I have friends obviously who've got
research one specific topic for decades
and I suppose you could say I kind of be
fairly laser focused on things like
space colonization before we Paradox too
but usually one thing I like about doing
the weekly episode is I get to talk
about something completely different for
a whole week and I saw your best my
focus is when I buy that script and a
lot of times we come back to topics I'm
familiar with but it's nice just zooming
on something specific for a couple of
days and and turn that episode out
um if I could actually get them I'll
focus on one specific thing for one year
uh I think it probably would be getting
future in walking to be honest that that
would be that that's that energy fixed
solution walk on gave me a fusion
reactor that we can build for less per
wattage cost than a gas generator and if
we could do that great that solves so
many problems
so you don't want to be the emperor out
of Star Trek no good God why would you
don't want to prescribe a different
snack every day I I just started some
scale yesterday in the book The the end
of the death which is the uh book eight
part one of the second pre-chor series
that's one something like 70 books for
the horse heresy and the uh the books
has the emperor on his throne to start
the thing off at and he's got like Lido
from the Dune series too and so far as
about the only thing you know for sure
about them is that you would not want
their job ever uh even if you want to
say megalomaniac you wouldn't want their
job ever and I tend to assume that's a
very accurate view of actually wanting
to run things I I really prefer to do it
from the sidelines where I can kind of
snipe and take pot shots at people as
opposed to have to actually be
responsible for it myself
sir Gog says thank you for your five
dollar super chat if future Generations
conclude that a quote rare a biogenesis
is the Fermi Paradox solution would this
change ethical considerations around
panspermia
um can you read that one more time I
feel like I missed the key piece on that
if future Generations conclude that rare
a biogenesis is the Fermi Paradox
solution would this change ethical
considerations around panspermia
well I think the issue with paying
spermi is is the concept there generally
and there are multiple forms of it is
the idea is that you'd have life on a
comet for instance that was pretty all
over the Galaxy and that's where life
kind of came down from his you know
spent interceptually that way
um if you mean more in the sense of like
what would we do if we came across a
plant that also had life on it and we
almost ever found that
I think the answer would be that you
would never want to touch a planet that
you found life on uh that wasn't you
know
related to us especially if you couldn't
conform that initially because you're
not going to know you show up on some
planet and oh look they've got you know
they don't even use DNA you don't
initially know that that's not from
Earth you don't know that was on
someone's Von Neumann probably it's
about 10 000 years where your ship got
there and it's just been put together by
some DNA editing so unless we find
plants almost everywhere with life on it
the one thing you can be sure of is we
do find life you're probably going to
have it worse people fighting over who's
going to protect it as opposed to
actually wanting to knock it out destroy
it or replace it it'll be too precious
of commodity it'd be worth a million
times Zone weight and gold so to speak
so Cornell stamat Thank You for Your
Super Chat he says what are the problems
of sending a spaceship with cryogenic
human fertilized eggs that will be
raised by AI robots once they land in an
exoplanet
uh we don't know what those problems are
because we had a chance to yet but I
think um Alistair I know it's looked
that one in this episode it was one
short story I think was called Frozen uh
or something very similar to x i space
one Glacier that's what it's called but
the kind of a theme was in that
Revelation space series was that a lot
of the early ships sent by the Americans
uh you know they got their first but
with all the failed colonies because
they will be basically vinyl probes that
would arrive with those demio and race
people and they said they also not be
very happy well-adjusted sociopaths so
um you know I do think that you're very
likely to see some kind of chat GPT
equivalent in teddy bears helps raise
kids but helps raise kids in the same
way that a baby model helps raise kids
or a teddy bear helps raise kids or your
cat or dog how great your kid they're
all factor in there but they're not
running the ship but
and you know again if it can raise it
then it's not AI doing it's just a
person that happens to be a robot you
know that's the same concept for if we
send somebody who's an uploaded mind on
Android if you're sitting a lot of
Frozen embryos and cells and something
as sophisticated as an AI what about
using AI why not just use a human mind
that's been uploaded or frozen since you
assume you're going to do that and just
divided on Android
oh time so it's time for us to go to our
next plague thank you my wife for
strictly me to these questions
um so she is all handset what she shows
me to let me know that Santa gonna break
we'll go to break for a few minutes and
we'll see you in a couple of minutes
so while we're on break for a few
minutes I thought we'd do a quick update
and walkthrough of upcoming episodes for
the next couple of months this upcoming
Thursday we'll be taking a look at one
of my favorite topics space habitats and
talking more about their practical roles
in the future so this episode is more
about what purpose and role could they
serve look at the topic then on March
9th we'll return to the topic of
traveling between galaxies and I want to
look Beyond just going to Andromeda
which in many ways isn't even a
different galaxy so look at the other
neighboring galaxies like the Council of
giants March 12th in two weeks is our
sci-fi Sunday episode and we're going to
review various apocalyptic doomsday
scenarios and ask how bad those would
really be and what course you could take
afterward then on March 16th we'll be
exploring the future of exploring our
past with a look at the future of
archeology
most true third will be a return to the
topic of simulated universes to ask how
one might escape from one if in it or
otherwise find the cheat codes then on
March 30th we'll close the month out
with an expanded redo of our episode on
Space Drive types with the advanced
spaceship Drive compendium that will
have a run time of nearly two hours
after that we'll head into airport to
look at Galactic habitable zones than
smart cities and the future of City
Planning and design on April 13th super
weapons on April 16th sci-fi Sunday
life developing on or colonizing giant
Earth-like moons on April 20th and it
will close out April with a look at
small modular nuclear reactors
incidentally you can also catch all of
sfas episodes early in ad free on our
streaming service nebula at
go.nebula.tv Isaac Arthur so you want to
see Thursday's upcoming episode of space
habitats that was already released
earlier this afternoon on nebula as to
updates on channel production of course
the big one is the ongoing speech
therapy I'm recording this mid-break the
day after our last live stream January
30th whereas this live stream is coming
out the end of February and hopefully
that means there's a big difference in
how I sound but I suspect that's been
overly optimistic and we'll need a
couple more months to see the difference
and that will take a couple more to
reflect in the episodes as I record them
well in advance and that is assuming
there is much difference as the accident
or speech impediment call it what you
will there's a question of if I'd redo
any episodes if that does get completely
fixed and the answer is basically no but
yes I have updated episodes when I
thought I could do them better and it
has always been my thought I could read
write the topic significantly better or
break it into multiple more detailed
videos there's a few classic episodes I
might consider redoing verbatim just
with a new narration and updated video
but by and large I'd rather just redo
the topic and update everything
including bits I wished I'd added before
while removing tangents but certain key
episodes like the Fermi Paradise
compendium or others we reference a ton
for new viewers to watch and often need
to update for new cases anyway yes those
will probably get updated and expanded
versions and you know I'm not really
taking much for granted in terms of when
and how much that problem will be
corrected but that's coming in weeks if
not months away so for now let's get
back to more of your questions
well we're most the way back we are
waiting for a moment for child related
crisis one of them decided to have a his
event so I would say which one I'm still
I keep thinking I've probably missed the
egg when I said it wrong because I'm
like what is that full Scouts you know
I haven't seen one person actually
create they post the answer yet oh I'm
sorry someone finally did there we go
we are waiting for a moment for Sarah to
come back hopefully so he can continue
going on all right good job Sebastian
grunfeld unless somebody else got there
for us the answer is indeed 54.
[Music]
so it's one half chickens lays one half
eggs in one half days you just ignore
the one and a half and the one half so
you're left with one chicken lays one
egg in one half days which would mean
that one chicken would lay six eggs over
nine days and then neither would do six
times nine fifty four all right welcome
back
well I'm glad that you got the answer
explained but it was really fun to see
everybody's explanations and the math on
how they got there I have to go back and
check the audio now afterwards make sure
I didn't like botch it
it was fun
um
interdimensional demon says what are the
areas of science you are most interested
in right now
um I mean it's always physics that's
uh that's that's what my degree is in
that's what I went to
um just in general space is usually most
interesting to me I'm not a big one for
minor astronomical phenomena uh you know
I usually don't like we found this
planet because I I don't I don't care oh
hi yay but the individual details new
kind of qualification of them yes same
for like rockets I tend not to be all
that big a deal to be like what new
Improvement they've mentioned Iraq I'm
more interested in what's this new
payload so uh space settlement that's
pretty much what I tend to look at the
most
Hobbs and Joe says would you estimate
the probability of a functional unified
theory in 10 years
uh I honestly do not expect to ever have
one
um it's it would be neat if we had one
and we might get it soon later but if
we're going by the classic Grand unified
theory that gravity will mesh up with
the other two three or four it's really
well good forces
um I don't see the necessity you know we
were talking about that what yesterday
or day four
um gravity doesn't act anything like
those other ones they're not that
similar to each other the other strong
weekend uh nuclear forces and and
electromagnetism but they have they're
all in the same kind of power Zone
they'll have a plus and minus value
they're all within a couple orders of
magnitude in terms of strength gravity
is a trillion trillion trillion times
weaker than the weeks of them and is
only attractive
and you know it's why would you assume
those are connected it's just because
the other one's worse so it has to be as
well I think that's possibility we might
see that there's some Theory to suggest
that could be true but we shouldn't just
kind of take that for granted either
I thought I heard a background beeping
in Iowa too yeah that's yeah it's like a
morse code signal or something
Deuce area thank you for your Super Chat
do you think we'll ever end up with a
society of geo-engineered individuals
who can change gender at will like the
culture
um that was an at will of course I think
it took a month but uh I guess it was
under the volition if you wanted to do
that enough a trans human setup could do
that I mean it's one of those kind of
complicated things there we're not going
to waste time on but the definition of
gender is for today which assume
physical sex for ease of purpose there's
obviously multiple ways one could Define
that but if we're just talking about
changing the uh the plumbing
specifically the plumbing that should be
something you'd be able to do by
sufficiently complicated surgeries that
being the case doing that at will
that star schemes the like idea why
would you have that particular genetic
augmentation to allow that as opposed to
it since the technology is probably just
there going the surgery they haven't
done I don't need to have a the ability
to change my hair color at will I can
just go get some dye and so it's
something you probably could build in
but I wouldn't really tend to think of
something that most people would bother
having built in
Cornell stamat says could people live on
a Dyson Sphere around the Sun after it
becomes a white dwarf or is it
impossible because gravity becomes much
stronger the closer you get to a white
dwarf
um to a degree it depends on how cold it
gets uh the frequency of light's not
really your friend on that one either
because it could be a lot higher in the
UV it's you know it's it's harsh light
that comes off a white dwarf but
generally speaking think like a
millionth to light the Sonic puts out
maybe less I could be like 10 million I
can't cough up my head and it drops with
time right this thing gets dimmer and
demo but
um give a period around a billion years
where you have a sphere of say a
thousand the size that we currently are
that would fit around just fine and
they're starting to get a range where
you'd have the gravity be kind of high
but I'd have to I'd have to run the
numbers on that one and last time I
couldn't say it I think we'd cover them
dying Star Wars I think
so Sierra episode dying Stars I think we
did talk about that what certificates
they are I think the answer was yes but
they might need some modification
War Giver says how close are we really
to shoveling space rock or regolith into
a machine and it's spitting out the
component elements in ignite form in get
form that seems like an important step
for space colonization yeah I locked
down there because that was when the
crossword puzzle clues actually I know I
was reading it and then I was like
really lazy cross world or two or the
other that's like what comes after it
has like a string of letters just an
alphabetical order
um but uh
what was the question I think the clue
was what comes after q and the answer is
rst yes that was what it was what goes
up to qrst it was weird no was follows Q
which was confusing yeah um but they
also had Ingot on there yeah what was
the actual question for the audience
oh yes how close are we to shoveling
space rock or regolith into a machine
and it's spitting out the component
elements in ignet forms
um I would say that we could potentially
have something like that online I mean
the the follow-upon that has to be
whether or not you actually would want
to do that specific thing I think that
we have to kind of the technology in
ourselves if we're running it and then
the biggest problem we have is that
nobody really has a big incentive other
than the case of space travel right as
big as NASA is as industry as NASA is
they are very tiny fragment of
Technology research and Engineering
nobios has a motivation to make a truly
automated system like that for
production why would you when you have
people on hand that are much cheaper to
go look at it and you have to go through
prototyping so you're looking for
something that could land on asteroid
operate completely independently and
basically what centrifuge material you
can make what she did that fairly easily
right it'd be a power hog but you could
uh that's probably not the most energy
efficient way to do that but big Pro
flies in system solar panels grabs a
chunk of dirt blows that thing with tons
of energy and then centrifuges to the
gas and then spits that out as ingots
that should be doable right with modern
technology and automated I don't think
that would be the best way about doing
that though but is something we could be
doing you will have in terms of just
like can we make yourself applicable as
an extraction 20 years for the basic
technology if we if we had a motivation
really Pile in on that resource I think
this might only be a partial question so
you might have to fill in the Gap a
little bit but Michael thank you for
your Super Chat he says visitors to an
O'Neill cylinder are issued caps and
told not to look up to avoid panic
so I'm going to make a guess there that
the problem with an O'Neill solenoid is
that when you look up you know it's like
here on Earth you see your neighbor's
yard next to you with a cross for you
but on and only you see your neighbor's
yard above you too they're hanging
overhead uh and I think for some people
that might be a bit of a panicky
inspiring Spears especially if it's like
a skyscraper I don't need a cylinder for
the people who live on the other side of
it because it looks as a giant Diagon
waiting to fall out in an itchy moment
uh it would not do so if you cut it but
you know the brain is wired for this
planet it's not not foreign
things like that might pop up but you
know that's one of those examples of you
can bottle it we can guess it we can
theorize it but until we build stuff
like that and actually check we don't
really know what things might set people
off to be panicky and you know when
you're busy building airplanes or ships
or submarines the last thing you tend to
think about something like that but also
the most important is what happens when
the crew of The Passenger so they
realize they are inside a thin little
metal thing that's flying through the
air hundreds of feet off the ground
thousands feet off the ground or
thousands of feet underwater getting
ready to be crushed to death and there's
nothing they could do to save themselves
that happened you know that is the kind
of thing you don't really think of in
the engineering phase but really really
matters and that is one of those things
we're gonna have to find out when it
comes to our planetary colonization and
space settlement especially
um especially since uh hitting the wrong
button can result in life and death
scenarios much more quickly than walking
in the wrong direction stuff it's nice
it's nice to have something to let you
know you're about to do something that
is a bad idea like right off the road
silver Comics says in your field of
science fiction and futurism on what
subject have you had the largest change
of mind
um I mean the weather Force comes to
mind that obviously the biggest one was
power beaming I I used to really hate
the idea of you know beaming energy from
the Sun down to Earth because to me it
was the same thing as Death Ray and then
it seems like this is a vast source of
power
um and yeah but it's a death rate your
bb power to Earth and then I had
somebody who would actually more
involved that sit down and like talk to
me about me like this is actually very
easily made safe
uh because you know you'd say well
someone hijacks this so what do they do
it's the beam that's designed to come
down as a diffuse beam they they need
hours to try to change something like
that overall to make it more focused I
suppose Just Launch something in the
cells that was just a death ray and in a
time you could easily blow them up
because it's a satellite in orbit so
that's either one I really changed views
on was the idea of power beaming being
too dangerous to ever be used
Liam's today thank you for your Super
Chat he says how do you think dark era
AI would deal with universal expansion
and proton decay if they never found a
way to leave this universe faster than
light or time travel is the only option
to create a boltzmann brain oh well I
would argue that you can't create a
Bossman brain oh you just have to wait
till it forms naturally otherwise it's
not Sportsman brain
um and randomly
um actually I would say it has to be
randomly because it was informing
naturally that we kind of implying was
evolved
um
what do you do in a case like that Greg
benford's galactic center Saga uh played
with that idea and at that time proton
decay was much more popular so I would
suggest you talk to him on that I am not
a big fan of photon Decay and super
symmetry I'm not like opposed them per
se but they were very popular when I was
going to school as like the main Theory
and it's kind of falling off like you
know people say super symmetry of proton
to get quite as much
um in a situation like that how do you
keep living forever we
well we got episode Walking reality that
I just wrote that that does actually
play with that idea a little bit more
but I would say
you know the ones I always like could
you go ahead and do something like an
electron positron because it would be
proton to key in their case atoms and so
you have atoms are made of very very
slowly orbiting electrons and positrons
in a vast empty region that was
basically making up your computer
switches you know atoms and that was I
think the option that Benford presented
there there are some other options that
might be on the table I think we did
discuss some of those in the uh
civilizations of the intense series but
too much time to go into detail on it
now
couple of comments here we have Peter
ski saying he's uh not got a question
he's just happy he was able to join the
live stream for a change and thank you
for your hard work any chance to cool
down and 4C says hi Isaac big fan and
long time sub keep up the good work mate
ah we will try thank you
do all stars begin their life as a red
dwarf later gaining mass after ignition
or do larger Stars require more mass to
ignite ignition did I read that one
earlier I don't know probably
not actually I don't know does it depend
on the composition of the stars
um you know I might have to afford that
one to an actual straddle on that one
but my
as I recall
stars are going to form pretty much the
period of time it starts taking for all
that to really heat up right because
Fusion is really slow really slow
especially at lower Mass so all the
local gas nearly is going to pretty much
form up and they are before that's
really heated that star up enough to be
hot right it takes a while for that to
heat up and I think I would say tens of
millions of years after the Stars
reached the you know critical mass
before it's really blowing its solar
wind in things away but that might be
one of those examples of things I'm
remembering from textbooks written in
the 80s so
here's an interesting but I believe they
roughly the light mass that they're
going to be at before they are actually
really gotten to that full-on ignition
point I think this is an interesting
question
um and maybe kind of encompassed by some
of the designs and things that we saw at
the
space conference International Space
development conference
someone asks why should we just why
should we design a spacecraft Hall to be
aerodynamic when you can just have a
series of inflatable structures that
envelope a spacecraft and make it able
to fly and survive re-entry
yeah that's a possibility the kind of
same thing why don't I have you know why
is my spaceship have to look streamlined
when it's going through space when
there's no air and can I just have
sections that might pop out you know
it's a compaction component so like your
bedroom on board the launched vehicle is
designed to forward up into the wall
space while that thing and it just kind
of expands inflates and blows up to give
you space once you're outside the
atmosphere you can do the same for just
putting around a uh of the entry cocoons
you wore into the planet uh the thing is
that that would imply was kind of bigger
than the actual ship was originally at
least a little bit and see a much bigger
cross section going in which is not
necessarily optimal it should be doable
I'd imagine so it's probably look to
that option too but I
it was actually not a bad idea I should
be the zip side when yd4l called drop
ships that uh that might be a fun thing
to cover there so I will make a note
while you're making that note I'm going
to read a couple more comments Parker
Brown just joined us he says hi Isaac I
also am an army artilleryman and a long
time viewer I just got off duty and
tuned in so glad I could make this one
Isaac
um
I was gonna sorry jump into a different
question here we have
a question several questions wondering
what character and fiction you find the
most relatable and what character that
you find the most interesting
um follow up with a previous question
once a star gets hot enough it'll stop
blowing other gases Falling Towards it
away and that kind of towards that
Maxima like a wolf or yet stall so uh
just kind of you know maximum at that
point whenever a star reaches a
temperature that it's producing too much
solar wind for random passing matter to
fall in on it that's when it's going to
reach its maximum Mass
um so that usually again has to be after
it's really pretty much ignited
um what was that question again
so I can't shop no walking chewing
bubblegum today no
um what character and fiction do you
find the most relatable and what
character do you find the most
interesting
um
Neville from Revelation space I can't
remember his his last name right now
that I was about to call him Neville
Chamberlain which obviously not yet but
Neville
um he's the main character of that
series uh well one of the main
characters he was very related with me
so was uh the
the other one that putting us of course
one damn Sylvester
um but oh Calvin
um
just before that Series in general I
find relatable in me ways but I think I
also like to original Oliver from the
robot series Elijah Bailey those are the
ones I can relate to a lot there's a
fair number of them but usually I'm not
trying to relate personally to them so
much as I I you know you you have two
ways you can read stories you can get
into them for the first person and
Roger's last name was doing that I loved
following those characters along but
it's kind of like they're talking to you
as a story and or you see their foreshan
accounts all gonna be where someone's
nearing to you about this person who's
interesting to you anyways then that way
I don't usually empathize you know I
usually trying to put myself in their
shoes as them so which is what would I
do with their case
um because a lot of the most interesting
characters are awfully just awful people
if you look at them probably like the uh
non-character-driven morality like uh
Tyrion Lannister from Game of Thrones
for instance not a nice person yeah very
interesting character but uh not a nice
person
Sebastian grunfeld says can we give
Farmland Back To Nature once we have
enough cheap energy to meet our
nutritional needs through 3D printing
and vertical farming
um possibly it depends what the
population is the time what people want
to use that for and in a lot of cases
it's easier to let it go back to say
Going Back To Nature
um this is a mistake people sometimes
make is this idea that that area that
was a forest you know for your last 50
years they think that's been a forest
forever it's like nah you know you go
digging amount of soil you'll find out
what's big plane you know for you know a
couple centuries before that and for
that I was forced again and then before
that might have been a glacial
um nature moves and changes it's very
Dynamic there's nothing really stable
there so whatever we would do with a
piece of Farmland
um we shift back around it's not really
going to be like it was before unless
you put a lot of effort into
specifically making it like that and
keeping it that way I think you see
reconditioned usage of things like that
I'd say well well we'd like to turn that
into a garden park or we'd like to turn
that into you know something that was
more synthesis of of what we would think
of as nature with what we'd like to do
with it too uh which might be something
as simple as like part cultural farming
there or a forest that was full of tree
canopies you could go running around
onto you know things like that would be
very common I think
and Isaac bordeau if Einstein was
brought back today what aspect do you
think of modern physics and cosmology
would surprise him the most
hmm
so many options to choose yeah well
that's the problem is that it would be
very wrong to see that we haven't got
anything new since uh since he passed on
uh and I don't remember actually when he
did die I want to say it was in the 40s
um but uh
because again sometimes it's fleshing
out an idea or looking at it differently
than it is necessarily that it's maybe
not he never considered it yeah I maybe
dark energy and accelerating expansion
would get there but the thing is the big
bang and Hubble expansion was already
there forever the time
um strength here you might be
interesting to him but again that's not
I don't know there'll be anything that
would be all that shocking to him you
know I it's there's been major changes
but we often get depression like science
is always finding new and things that
disapprovements record existence and you
know that's got to be kind of a meme you
know civilization that's not true of
physics
um there really isn't been all that
money you know we find all these cool
new things but the fundamental laws have
very rarely shifted all that much even
Einstein's relativity was not actually
epic with shock or shift to The Climate
Quantum was quantum was a big shift
because we have a deterministic and that
was a philosophical mindset that so that
took actual big worldview shift uh but
relatively a little bit less so and I
don't think there's been anything that's
really been all that
huge of a shift in last century
Sona Bella says if non-fpl wormholes
were viable would it be possible to
build a galactic power grid by dumping
them for example into star cores yeah
that was the last entry I I just got
done recording the advanced spaceship
Drive compendium which I think came out
like 100 minutes long Maya sponsored
outro on it um and the very last entry
Drive is Wormhole drives and uses a
specific case of what if you couldn't
use them for traversing how would you
use them for driving a spaceship and
there's no way you could do that but
let's say I take one of the Wormhole and
dump it into a star and the other end of
the one hole and I put on the back of a
spaceship now that is a little bit iffy
in terms of how real wormholes would
operate especially because more one type
of warm hole there's obviously the
Einstein rosenbridge option but uh if
you think it was just like a classic
Stargate portal then you suddenly have a
gigantics flaring the old exhaust of
hyper you know hot plasma from a star
blowing out the back of your spaceship
and an infinite Supply without infinite
but much bigger than a spaceship and
that's a very awesome spaceship Drive as
well as weapon um so you get dumped by
those on the other someone's Planet just
roast it but uh that would be one way
you could use them for that same for
power supplies pretty much you can find
a way to make Power with it you can find
a way to make a spaceship drive out of
it
okay I'm I'm kind of going through I
think we've gotten
off on a few rabbit trails and so I'm
not sure I have any more diverse I'm
surprised I haven't got off on more I
know so I live on rabbit Trails I know
um let's get back to my main point of
view here's an interesting here's an
interesting comment what is your take on
the chat GPT and open AI do you predict
encyclopedic information hubs like
Wikipedia will adopt a new user
interface like the photonic librarian in
the movie time machine from 2022. um to
be honest I would expect to do something
new as opposed to Wiki
um yeah I was one of the early editors
on Wikipedia not like 400 or anything
like that but you know when it was still
relatively new thing I did editing on it
and I lost my entry code I joined the
army
um and uh I tried to stop editing again
circle like 2010 2011 something like
that and uh I was already very impressed
that time by how
they're very much very much specific
rules you gotta have to follow with me
and things but I really limited people's
ability to change a page or things like
that like you know I hate the way they
do bios there for instance my has this
bizarre joke story building there about
me being born of two physicists uh as
opposed to to my parents bet while they
were physics Majors one of them didn't
even finish they were able to win
computers instead but uh Wikipedia is
definitely to me it's about everyone's
favorite Source I saw it focused on you
so if I turn the camera off
um so like Wikipedia
is not to be the wave of the future for
encyclopedias anymore it's the thing
that's going to be the
thing like the Oxford encyclopedia that
I will use the base of what the new one
should be and I think Google only kind
of beat it around that because just
Google up and answer but yeah something
like chat PGT has you know face for a
new Wiki that's probably how that would
look out so don't think of chat chat HPD
is like the the final product here of
what's gonna be the customer service
angle or things like that it's more like
the first search engine that's going to
start doing that and three more we
finally made an AI search engine type
thing that's actually able to
carry on what's not an automatically
horrible conversation with a human you
know like when you first started calling
uh automated customer services like
press one for English press two for some
other language uh if you want to get the
following departments press one two
three blah blah blah and somebody
automated ones will say what would you
like to do or do you ask it a question
and it would be like just keep repeating
you it would know what it was doing
right very transparent very irritating
set your teeth on edge because it was
too slow or too specific it could get
like say yes or no yep I'm sorry I
thought I heard you say people you know
it's like weird like that chat gcp is
just fine kind of to the point where
else can not trigger people as a
horrible interface we're talking to
that's not a final product and that's
going to look very different for
different applications for asking
questions yes yeah you want something we
just say I don't have to look it up I
can say how far is it to Pluto and it's
not going to automatically give me some
weird answer or it's going to tell me
right what it is right now and it
changes and it's not going to tell me in
centimios it's gonna tell me in
kilometers a mile is based on you know
me and not in like point zero light
years and things like that so that's
kind of what that's moving on to EDS to
answer the question that I kind of
wanted off on a rapid Trail again about
yes I think you would probably see that
but I don't think that would be the
change of what Wikipedia did mostly
because I don't think Wikipedia would be
really neat embracing change as fast as
somebody else could replace it with
something different so uh random
question somebody just asked if Jupiter
just passed Saturn again do you know off
the top of your head
um I'm not sure that actually in terms
like do they can they were
I don't know I don't know I remember
that having come up with columns or
conjunctions but I don't really pay
attention to that that much I pay
attention the eclipses because they're
visually interesting that's about it
and I do find this one amusing a couple
of the responses to your teleporter
comment at the beginning of the show uh
a teleporter is basically a replicator
with disintegrated items after scanning
yeah and again this is a great one about
science fiction
um on the way if you're writing you
should always be trying to think about
the bizarre uses people might put your
system to use in terms of like making
money or killing people and on the other
hand the upside is if you do put one of
those kind of mistakes in there like
replicators which should never introduce
Star Trek
um then you do at least had a problem
that never comes up as an issue unless
your series is so popular that you can
kind of think there's a cost of doing
business you had a very successful
series and now you have to uh do some
red kind fix it but um the other comment
I found very amusing was about passing
through a black hole something the size
of a truck and somebody coming out
missing in all of their atoms yeah yeah
100 scrambling information
I teleported home one night with Ron and
Sid and Meg Ryan's Hardaway and I got
Sydney's leg
I love Douglas Adams I think we have uh
I think we've gotten close to it yeah I
think the last question here is going to
be
you could step through until Porter and
teleport to the Moon given all the
dangers and risks that we just
contemplated
but you could step to the moon base in
the future would you personally risk it
in terms of the debate about whether
that's you or a costume
that's a smart idea would you go up on a
spaceship if someone found you a slot no
no I I love the idea of settling in
space I I really like my house I like my
phone here I'm staying here although
Young Folks can go enjoy that oh well
less risk of Wars I like to fly planes
for hobbies I I'm not that uh into that
I like to fly and I also like to come
back and see my husband and children
yeah I don't like the idea of becoming
an atom Scramble for breakfast well so
if I believe the same person that I Lose
My Soul along the way I'm sure Harvard
Nelson wrote a really nice short story
on that too I might think of another one
like fat Harmony then which was
different but um
there's some great sci-fi on that but we
can't answer that philosophically and I
don't know you could either answer
something of that scientifically anyway
yeah did I lose my sword did you get
replaced with an identical one of my the
same person as was before
definitely a good science question so I
I see way across the room there and the
fine print it says you is still you you
is still you yeah
I am me that's a good answer for that
one
um but uh I would not be wanting to do
that I'm not sure I'd encode you and do
that my first thought would be why don't
we send through some inanimate objects
first and let's also while we're send
through say a mouse and a fly at the
same time and see if you get the result
from that because that movie The Fly
come out just when I was a kid it was
like the horror movie on teleportation
that everyone was quoting for years and
uh all that off was seen it Star Trek 2
great movie Star Trek one not so great
they got that crazy transportal moments
where the science officer comes on board
against scrambled right there live and
it's like screaming and that's of course
why spark has to show up looking like
Cal Dracula for some reason in that film
um we could go off on that tangent for a
while instead though let's close out for
today
I would not go off in a teleporter first
I would not encourage you would have
said anything living through there and I
would suggest waiting quite some time
for you to do anything that you were
attached to emotionally but eventually
sure why not someone go through
I'm a little bit more like McCoy than
than uh than spacha and things like that
so that wonderful note we'll go ahead
and sign off for today thank you for
joining us and we'll see you on Thursday
so that will wrap us up for the day I
want to thank everyone for joining us
and again if we didn't get you a
question feel free to post us a comment
below and I'll try to get to it this
evening also you can continue the
conversation at any of the forums on
Facebook and Reddit Discord or our
website isaacartho.net
thanks for joining us and we'll see you
Thursday
[Music]
