one approach to colonizing gas giants is
to create a ring above them at the
distance gravity is the desired level
such as Earth normal on Jupiter gravity
is about 2 and 1/2 times higher than
Earth so by building a ring 26,000 Mi or
42,000 km above its surface we would
have gravity the same as Earth and if we
built a band 443 Mi wide at this height
it would have the same surface area as
Earth and it might be much wider these
could also be built around Brown dwarfs
that would be nearly as as the moon's
orbit is such strip Wards or planetary
bracelets utilizing the active support
Technologies discussed in the mega
structural compendium may be popular
habitats around gas giants closer to
their Sun however they may also be
constructed around order white dwarfs
where air walls and tilted me on the
side could allow sunlight to be bounced
into bracelets which might contain
thousands of earths worth of living area
