in just a moment but go ahead and start
getting your questions in the chat
window so our moderators can start
relaying those tubing as soon as we
start please try to keep the questions
concise and watch your spelling and try
to be polite to others in the chat
we usually go for about an hour so you
probably want to grab a drink and a
snack though we'll take a break about
halfway through too
with all that said welcome and let's get
started
good afternoon everyone and welcome to
our live stream q a for december 26 2021
this will be our last q a for the year
though we still have one more episode
coming up in a few more days to close us
out on thursday the 30th
uh probably the big news we starting off
today which will be
getting to you on off your questions i'm
sure will be the james webb space
telescope which we had already did
launch successfully yesterday morning
and so it's also national bacon day
today and i hope everybody had a good
holiday season
and we'll be taking your questions as
you get them into the moderators for
them to get passed on to my wife sarah
who will be helping us by asking
questions as usual
as a side note both sarah and i are
getting over all
other fun blessing of the holiday season
which is cold so we probably are going
to be talking a little bit of quieter
voice there may be some background noise
from bumpy the mic ups as a result so
all right with that said let's go ahead
and take the first question
yes well actually the first question
came in on december 8th from my seat
mate representative bob young and he
wanted to know that if if santa claus
was stationed on mars how would zero
gravity affect the reindeer's ability to
fly and would the presence be able to
stay in the sleigh
well there's not actually zero gravity
on on mars there's very little air but
the gravity is just weaker by about uh
what's about 60 lowest about
you weigh four pounds maybe ten or four
kilos for every uh 10
on mars so you still have that gravity
going on
the air is really thin though so you
have problems getting lift underneath
the wings there's not going to be very
much lift
the thing is that fundamentally we are
pretty solid based on known physics that
santa's slay does not anyway operate
under known aerodynamics just because
it'd be
very difficult for there to be you know
any real airflow going out of those
wings that would cause the whole thing
to ignite at the speeds he has to travel
at so he's probably using some other
type of proportion now
you will hear rumors that that in fact
santa was shot down sometime in the
1970s
during a cold war exercise where the air
force mistook him for a soviet
interceptor coming into a bomb this is
probably not true though it's just
thought that rudolph's nose which closed
red as the leading edge of that aircraft
or spacecraft might have been able to
trigger them to think that was an icbm
coming out of the north pole how so the
rumors that he was shot down that seemed
to be erroneous and again that's because
that whole concept that whole argument
is based off the idea that the uh slay
is actually flying in our atmosphere of
the main port of its journey rather than
just kind of jumping in and out
suborbitally
so it sounds to me like if mars is uh
that mars might be the great weight loss
program for january uh it can and again
it's probably a good reminder that
fundamentally when it comes to eating
cookies and other sorts of uh fuels that
it's not so much about how much you
weigh it's about what the proportions
are that all stuff
so if you're 300 pounds of raw muscle
you don't need to go to weight loss
program oh dear
well let's jump right in we've got some
questions from today here we have a
question from john dahlberg hi isaac i
love your episodes on the future of
farming and vertical farming when it
comes to consumption do you foresee any
major dietary shifts
occurring in the developed world by the
year 2100
you know usually the thought on this is
that as the population rises and we need
to
be more efficient with our resources and
things like that that would end up
cutting back on certain foods and
usually the big targets on meat and uh
particularly beef but
i i really don't think that's going to
actually be once i'm happy on that
because well i do think we're going to
have to find more efficient ways to
create these food items which might be
like fat growing and stuff
um i don't see people really wanting to
tailor their consumption to that
we've gotten way more efficient
producing food and that's why there was
so many the malthusian addictions from
the late 1800s and the uh well the first
half of the 20th century
really didn't go where people were
thinking because we thought the
population was we like you know two
billion
um in asthma's famous caves of steel
which kind of prey due to transfer on
the foundation
they have a entirely closed in
population that grows all the food and
vats and they still can support 8
billion people or 40 billion on transfer
and that's just because that's the
numbers he had then for the kind of
farming that did then it was kind of
good aim for a realistic number what
your maximum would be we found that that
is not true and at the end of the day
if you're trying to make protein you
know there's many ways to do that
naturally or through an animal or
through a lab etc and i think that we
would not see people change their
consumption of something like beef so
much as maybe just change
how that's being created to some degree
too
and there's a lot of options available
we looked at those in synthetic meats
on the other hand
people are going to move to their taste
too i would hope i would lose to a
healthier diet of well you know while
getting ready to go on all post holidays
diets here and uh but i love cookies
cookies should be in plentiful supply
sugar's easy to grow but you know um
it's just one of those things where
consumption can shift to meet what you
got you know in terms of a scarcity
limitation but a lot of times what we
see instead is that you know innovation
causes production to rise to what people
want instead and i i would expect or at
least hope that's kind of what we could
be able to do obviously in the end you
have to follow necessity too though
all right dragon king says if
civilizations are area in the universe
what is the max number of civilizations
there can be before it becomes
problematic where we would have to
encounter them one hundred two hundred
one thousand
could you say the force out of that
question here
if civilizations are area in the
universe what is the maximum number of
civilizations there can be before it
becomes problematic where we would have
encountered them um
i mean kind of realistically they are
if they were inside uh i usually say
about 500 million light years if there
are civilizations close to other than
that it's kind of hard to explain why
they aren't if they're not just a freak
anomaly statistically why you wouldn't
of say you got one civilization that
started 501 million years ago uh you
know 500 million light years for us well
we should be detecting our signals by
now just barely but they have 4.99 you
know that we won't have yet uh on the
other hand that value amount to a
billion light years there should be
twice as much diameter there or so two
cubed or eight times more of those
civilizations it starts getting kind of
unrealistic you want to detect when they
are you know they had to start earlier
and just 500 million light years is
usually my
maximum packing force not to be able to
say the fermi paradox is just
really unlucky or some other variable
that would vanish from seeing them if
you're going for the rarity angle and
they they believe that the kind of ultra
fade is that kardashev two or three
scale civilizations then that's about
your maximum density that said um
that really is not that big of a volume
compared to the actual observable
universe which we would estimate to be
about 200 times wider than that and then
200 cubed or
oh my
uh 8 80 thousand times bigger uh wait
eight million times being awesome a very
tiny percentage eight million
civilizations i'd say if you have less
than eight million civilizations the
university of probably not too much of
flying paradox angle issue if you have
more than that you have a problem
sounds like you're good to go dragon so
we should probably check my math on that
that
you got a a cold fog in your your brain
oh yeah well 200 cube that should be 8
million i hope
all right uh bernie sanders hi isaac do
you think that gravitational lensing
could be used in any meaningful way to
see objects that we wouldn't otherwise
have the capabilities to see
oh sure i mean we've already been using
gravitational lensing as well partially
for truthful again dark matter
because it causes that gravitational
lensing
and the nice thing about that is that
certainly cause a roughly spherical blob
which makes for fairly decent lines
um but in terms of gravitational lensing
i see things we couldn't see it's what
lets us see behind things um
we have well there's an area
called uh the zone of avoidance right
and beyond that is dark flow the uh the
other thing called dark besides dark
matter and dark energy and it's what
mysteriously causes a certain kind of
pull in galaxies towards that direction
which is probably not that mysterious
it's probably just a relatively large
number of galaxies there but we can't
see it because it's in the zone of
avoidance of course that shorthand is
actually the second zone of avoidance
the second zone avoidance which sounds
serious is actually just the center of
the galaxy our galaxy it takes up about
20 of our field of view and we avoid it
with telescopes because hard to see
the first zone of avoidance is the
ground do not point your telescope at
the ground if you want to be able to see
the stars and so that's the other zone
of avoidance and again that's just
astronomy speak for where you don't
point your telescope but it sounds like
some place where if you go there you're
gonna be like dodging dragons or or
strange you know bad effects
the third zone of avoidance is the
plymouth's landing strip
yeah we have a
let's see there's a potentially
interesting story so when i was 17 i got
my first car accident while i was
pulling off the freeway here um
literally out back in my current house
but i didn't live there at the time
where it was very dark and i couldn't
see the exit ramp going from about 11
about 90 or rather 90 to 11 and i banged
i turned too soon banged my car off a um
a guard rail and put out a headlight and
uh that was my first car accident no
injuries nothing like that uh and i
always said they should put more lights
in on that and they eventually did but i
really wasn't thinking about that and
when she and i came and got caught in
house said oh i love this place and we
always came in the daytime and one of
our serious friends who's a trustee he
says oh is that house right now inside
the plymouth landing strip is it with
the what the airport because it's a
little local airport it's like a few
miles that way right
not by the house cause oh it's just a
local joke for all the lights by the
freeway exchange you're like what do you
mean so you're out there and it's like
oh okay one thing i loved about the idea
of moving more out to the country was i
could do some home astronomy and what i
like instead is that even in the middle
of a dark stall this night i can see my
entire backyard clearly i have to do
gardening through pouring rain huge
number of lights got put up after my
accident a bunch of other people got in
accidents because the regular accident
location for years it's very bright
totally unrelated to any other topic on
the fact that it's the third zone of a
void zone of avoidance
all right we have a question from
scooter uh do you have any favorite
youtube channels that cover subjects
different from your channel
that's a good question uh i guess it
kind of depends on what you mean like
different um
i mean um well you know different not
the same yeah but sciences in general
like i mean there's a whole bunch of
show if i collaborate with them that
usually means i like this show and uh
it's what i actually watch occasionally
um you know like i i
i like to watch cody's laugh or
beekeeping stuff winston so a lot of the
other channels though science you do
other things outside that i think gcn is
the one i like to to bicycle onto
um
and there's a lot of ones i watch for
like general finance information that
could be doing for like a dave ramsey to
a rob but i cannot pronounce the same's
name
chicka crock
very famous write a book called rich dad
poor dad uh then there was other ones
watching
kiwisaki yeah
kiwasaki okay that's it and then like uh
let's watch gordon ramsay different
ramsey i like to watch him cook and yell
at people so
i actually enjoy watching him actually
just doing cooking shows by itself
though he actually explains you how to
make something um there's a lot of
channels i actually watched i'm
scratching oh let's see uh wolf lord row
and some of the other ones do like 40k
things i'm very into 40k law stuff so i
won't have a 40k stuff so uh
those will be some other ones examples i
i watch very little actual science
videos online i think that's what i do
so it's not really i go for
entertainment purposes
alaskan ballistics thank you for your
super chat and he says do you think that
sensors that detect life forms on
planets like in star trek are viable
under known science
um kind of sort of if you see our
episode from way back high tech search
and rescue
uh which i was mentioning the upcoming
videos a little bit because it was a
joke on whether or not
there was a dare i got made by someone
was could i find an excuse to use a
nuclear bomb
as part of a social rescue effort and
then and it turned out the answer was
yes
and in that episode we came up with
multiple ways of doing that um
one of those will be you do a microwave
pulse
and uh you use this basically microwave
radars same as what we use right now for
ground penetrating radar detect
heartbeats underneath um you know
collapsed runes and it's all about
stitching up the power on that because
it's not detecting people's life force
energy what it is is detecting the fact
that heart is beating and it's a very
tiny shift that's about when the zone of
what those make wave wavelights are at
so it's taking a photograph and it's
taking you know small photographs a
fraction of a second later et cetera and
seeing if something heart size is
actually moving
and you say well that works pretty well
it can work to go right through 30
meters of stone in fact you can work a
lot more than that you could do through
a milo stone you could do it through a
lot more and you could do it with a
nuclear bomb set off in orbit of an
entire planet
uh it's your tail in the microwave range
to be able to try to find
someone alive anywhere on that planet
but there's a lot of ways you can do
life force detection on
humans it's just
no the way they do in star trek is a
little hokey
they're saying for spaceships a little
bit hokey but microwaves work you know
where air doesn't
all right phantom wants to know if you
plan to do any videos on communications
and the future of communications
i guess kind of depends on what you mean
by communications there like we do talk
about that for things like alien beacons
we've done that episode and how we
actually go about doing some of our
study episodes we uh we probably should
actually do some more on setting the
drake equation but uh
uh in terms of communications for like
how humans communicate or why we either
slept the episode coming up next month
that's probably a good example of how we
where we discuss how communication might
shift a little bit the context there
being while we obviously talked about
the classic trope of telepathy a lot of
that episode is on the idea of what's
called technological telepathy which is
where you basically build
mmi units into people's head so they can
chat back and forth without having to
open their mouths it's not to say all
that complicated it could just be
something like a
sub-vocal recorder that sees how you
would be vibrating your vocal cords i
suppose that could have been helpful
while we were suffering from laryngitis
oh yeah no it's very much so um
if i haven't already mentioned soon i
both have a call today
sealash how do you think a manned
mission to mars how likely do you think
a manned mission to mars within this
decade is
um
i i would say i consider it twice as
likely if this decade is 2022 to 2032 as
opposed to the rest of the 2020s um the
extra couple years might make a big
difference
i think it's going to depend a lot on
whether or not the current we have a lot
of energy that's begun the last few
years
maybe the last five or six years uh of
spacex is really doing these commercial
launches successfully
and other people getting in that market
um you know i think if the james webb
telescope it blew up by the paddy
yesterday if it fails to deploy those
are kind of more you know in six months
but it's ready to go did we get images
backwards turn out the scope screwed up
um those are kind of little more blows
like challenger kind of was that can
really set you back um
there are other ones a little successes
that can really push you forward and the
question is how much
you know uh heart do people have for
going into that and i would say that we
actually could get an admission in the
next 10 years do you have to get very
likely
in the 2020s
i would say less likely than not but i
wouldn't say that it was super
improbable either
okay a question here from two men isaac
what is your take on the warp bubble
discovered by darpa could it be used to
surpass the speed of causality
no
nothing about warp bubbles actually
involves violating causality at all
that's the reason why they're
hypothetically allowed the notion of all
the warp drives and i say never assume
that darpa looking into something has
anything at all to do with uh with
whether or not it's particularly
realistic uh we'll back in that in a
second um but the warp bubble concept
works mathematically by using negative
matter to or negative energy either one
to contract sorry to expand space behind
you while in front of you you're
contracting space so you're shortening
the space in front of you and pushing it
out water behind you and this causes
your shift to move along that by
definition cannot violate causality or
the speed of light limitation any more
than than the galaxy spanning fashion
might do right
um and again instead of about all two
objects moving away from each other
faster than the speed of light that's
not what the limitation is yes can i
send information back and forth between
those
two points fast and light and war
drivers don't allow that
um but
do they allow you to get from point a to
point b and back uh in less time the
number of light years yes they would do
i think it'll likely work no do i think
that darpa is researching that indicates
that it is very likely no um lots of
torp does a lot of initiatives right
darpa is about looking at those strange
scenarios that might be a bit crazy i've
been part of topperworkboost before um
i've
found them fascinating but they usually
just you know here's some crazy scenario
in some cases it might be realistic or
not but here is this thing that we've
brought up that we're not sure how we
react to or what would the impact of
this be if it was what do we need to
find out if this is going to be crazy
and they are a little more realistic
than like what if a mountain woke up
tomorrow stood up and said ah i've been
sleeping for a million years this planet
is mine right they're usually in the
realm of something scientific that's
come up and people are seriously
discussing but don't assume that dopp
are funny research on something in any
way means that it's considered likely
you know or that they have a prototype
that's a good point
robert thompson says happy holidays to
our hosts and viewers i was wondering
since water is so abundant in the
universe is it possible for a large
amount of water to coalesce into a
planet without a core of rock or metal
yes we actually have an entire episode
on that topic coming up and let me pull
the date up on that real quick oh i i
oh that's just not on your screen no way
it's not what they're saying um so we
have a bunch of screens up inside the
the uh office here that you guys can't
see obviously
i'm just gonna pull it up real quick
so this schedule looking good
uh oceans and space space habitats and
preserves
uh is the february 24th episode
and super earth's
february 17th both kind of look at that
idea of complete water worlds
including artificial ones now that said
you wouldn't be very likely to have a
world completely made of water
self-collapse uh and then once it gets
to a certain size it will actually start
to
cause those water molecules to turn into
things like ice seven for instance which
is
not really what people are thinking of
for that kind of context but you get
some very large water awards and again
we'll look at that in
february
sounds fun you'll have to stay tuned
robert all right
valdog says what if venus and mars
managed to produce a civilization
capable of escaping the planet's fate
would there be any reason to return from
wherever they escaped to
what if venus and moses had produced
managed to produce a civilization
capable of escaping the planet's fate
huh
um
i'm not really sure if that question is
asking what if we said coney is there
and they escaped earth's fate or if you
mean whatever made those two planets
like mars is an illness rock and venus
is a suburb of hell
there is after the thought they may have
previously been uh livable planets and
that's actually quite reasonably
plausible based on what we know but i
wouldn't say it's very likely though but
it's plausible
um
i
don't think that either one of those
plants would offer us any sort of safety
from earth other than the eggs in a
basket notion because and then it's the
fundamental bit
anything you have technologically
speaking it allows you to terraform
either mars or venus to be livable
economically speaking allow you to
easily fix earth from anything we could
possibly do to it realistically and then
blow up in its entirety with something
like uh you know dump you down a black
hole or setting off a supernova inside
it that's a good segue into roflcopter
kerman's question he says do you think
that existing metropolises will expand
to mega cities with archaeology or do
you think that near future materials
science will force us to build new ones
from scratch
um do i think metropolises will
change the oncologies to say our
colleges yeah we'll expand to mega
cities with arcology okay um
i
don't know on that one when we did the
uh monopolist episode one things i
pointed out there was that you do not
actually need
to have um entirely like sky skateboard
planet to have a trillion people living
on um that in fact you could basically
just
have it as set up now as nothing but
suburbs and with a little bit of
additional hydropox underneath it and do
the trick uh or you could do the
skyscraper cities that were just like
the atlantic seaboard alone and uh you
know those arcologies there and fit a
trillion people in just there there's
the notion that metropolises would
eventually kind of emerge together they
call them megalopolises um
and that we can already have one of
those with like the eastern seaboard or
you know some of the areas like the uh
the river valley in germany um
and a few other places obviously you
know the eastern age of asia um
do i think that that's the trend that's
going to continue i actually do not
cities aren't going anywhere but i'd
actually guess that
they're going to have a bit of a decline
period in the west for a little while
right now just because of the uh the
current health crisis
and that's caused you know as you say uh
there are always silver linings and one
of those is that people are starting to
really
move forward with things like zoom and
work from home that have existed before
now and have been talked about non-stop
for a couple decades but are really
coming into play now that we kind of had
no choice but to adapt to them and that
being the case i think a lot of folks
might prefer to
you know not move to cities who
otherwise will for opportunity so we
might see a bit of a temporary heart in
the growth of cities uh but something
like that might only be temporary it
occupants is the population we keep
rising or not and my usual assumptions
you always rise you know slowly to a
comfortable level uh while you can
support a comfortable expansion you'll
do that but
um if that turns out to be wrong or if
you know we get down there further down
the road we could see that kind of
classic train tour or coruscant from
star wars look uh trantor from the
foundation series um
come up at some point and i wouldn't say
that would look like we'd expect to be
there from there though i think you
would
probably
see
lots of very tall skyscrapers that had a
lot more floor space around them those
empty space it kind of just depends on
what the setup for that looks like
how the building shifts costs but i
think it's decently likely we'll see all
colleges pop into the major cities yeah
all right marquis casanova says hi isaac
big fan here i was just wondering if you
could explain what dark matter and black
holes have in common
if one causes the other or how that
theory works um
dark matter is again that's matter that
we just don't know what it actually is
and we know that it's probably very
weakly interacting and the big candidate
is that they are massive individual
particles and that again is not that
much a problem people tend to forget the
of the basic particles we know of of the
six types of quarks and the three types
of electron muon and tauron and the
neutrinos that make up our core
elemental particles
um
only up and down quark are actually you
know they're the lightest of those two
quarks so is the electron all the other
gauge bosons of the bigger varieties and
the other size quarks they are huge and
massive and weakly interacting so
there's not much to say that they would
not be good candidates not themselves
but something else like that could exist
now the other one that comes up a lot is
could they be micro black holes and the
answer is yes but
and the key on that yes but is that
hawking's concept of hockey radiation
the idea that black holes evaporate
based on their mass and eg the ones that
weigh less evaporate faster that would
have to be wrong uh and
the problem is that while we we have yet
to ever detect hawking radiation we
haven't even taken a black hole when he
came with the idea and i don't know that
we could detect hockey radiation with
normal black hole even if we had one
right next to us so to speak because so
minimal for natural black holes
um
we have very good reasons to think that
almost hazardous exist under general
relativity so but we don't know under
quantum gravity which is another area
and that being the case we can't safely
evaporate but if they do evaporate if
hawking's right about that
then uh we couldn't have promoted or
black holes that were making up dark
matter because they wouldn't be very
massive the ones that would still be
around
should have been evaporating slowly with
time to give off a certain amount of
radiation
and as a result of that we should see
the expiration of them if they had
radiation from that but
it's just basically it's possible they
were black holes but we'd have to have
something a little bit not right about
our understanding and they wouldn't be
once formed by supernova of stars
okay question from art and harshly hello
from somalia as time progresses and the
human sphere expands what forms do you
think day-to-day entertainment could
take
is becoming overly hedonistic a
potential threat
um
i think every civilization has to deal a
little bit with the idea of getting
hedonistic um in various different ways
and i'm not going to say that someone
not a threat i would say typically
though
so much of what we think of as hedonism
has to do with things that make somebody
kind of unproductive or disfavored by
society
that uh generally speaking to people who
kind of naturally select out of that to
make up the next generation in terms of
who's in charge and who's you know got
the influence wealth respect or you know
who's raised a large family to you know
go out there and make up the next
generation those folks usually do not
give over to hedonism as much because so
much of that is the whole idea of
hedonisms that you withdrawn into
yourself and away from society in a
productive fashion well when you're
translating it that way uh if you're not
productive uh in the way psych is
productive that you're not going to be
that influential on the next generation
of things and whereas those who are
would be so i think that that's part of
part of what makes up a kind of a
protective shell against too much
hedonism um
because they'll offer something that's
actually bad in the first place that you
know kind of actually the goal is what
is the purpose of life and if it is just
to be happy
well then you know what i mean by being
happy is it happy if i just stick a wire
in your brain that makes you happy you
know because that's probably you know
technological zone inside the next few
decades even to be honest
um and they're all neuro-hacking as it's
called
um and those are the kind of problems
that get into that philosophical zone
where i don't know that we'd have a good
answer that is this channel that's more
see the philosophy of theology that's to
be honest has been discussing these
topics for
you know a couple millennia at least now
and
have i would say not come up with a
definitive answer but have come up with
a lot of very good in-depth answers uh
even though the technology related to it
is only decades old many of the actual
core problems philosophically have been
discussed about those things for
centuries and centuries
um i don't think that hedonism is going
to get us as to in the future
to what that form of entertainment would
take virtual reality uh is finally
starting to really hit the scene but at
the same time i don't know that's
necessary that's that's gonna be the
all-encompassing entertainment that we
we often thought of in like the 80s and
90s when cyber function was just hitting
the stage um
i would say it would be a large mix more
variety would be the biggest thing more
types of entertainment
let's do one more question that hit the
break yeah i was just going to say we've
got a yes no question right before the
break here from kenyon moon if jwst
spots a fleet of worlds slowly but
surely accelerating out of the galactic
plane do we send a contact message yes
or no
excelling out of the galactic plane
that's what it says so the james webb
space telescope detects a bunch of
chicano thrusters or similar pushing
some stars out of the galaxy i'd say
yeah absolutely you might as well send
it to them um i mean
if you if you can detect them they can
detect you just welcome to that
assumption uh they're more advanced than
you technologically then they probably
can see us yes they'd be a target
obviously but they have all that energy
to do that with and since they've
probably seen you anyway yeah you know
definitely say hello it's not i
i really have difficulty imagining
there's some kind of galactic customer
says you're not allowed to invade people
unless they say hello to you first
because that's kind of like saying well
if someone knocks on your door or you're
allowed to murder them or they wave you
out your window but otherwise no i don't
think that'd be how that would work out
so
um on the other hand it wouldn't be that
weird to say that there was a bit of a
custom says if people haven't tried to
contact you you'll even be
um i don't think that's very likely
either but i think it's a lot more
likely than the let's go kill him
concept or well we didn't see a concept
so if we saw something that i'd say
absolutely send the message to say hello
all right
let's go ahead and head your back we'll
see you in about four minutes
so we're halfway through today's show
we're taking a break for a few minutes
and it's a great time to get more
questions into our moderators for part
two while we're on break a question that
comes up sometimes from folks is how
episodes get suggested picked written
and then aired and the short answer is
that does vary a lot when it comes to
topic selection sometimes we do pores or
episode topics and sometimes one of our
volunteers who helps edit scripts
suggest something and sometimes someone
just toss it out in a live stream or
similar and i like the idea and roll
with it most commonly though not in the
majority some topics come to mind while
reading video thumb twinling or writing
other episodes or doing their video
sections before airing indeed the last
is how we get a ton of them as well as
the extended editions i do on nebula
once an idea gets picked as an episode
sometimes you get stuck on the back
burner for a time and other times i turn
right around and start typing some
episodes need research others are ideas
that have been well developed and need
nothing but typed out
occasionally one of the volunteers will
present a draft or outline for a topic
too but usually that's where the episode
moves into draft mode
once i get a draft ready i put up on our
google drive and depending on time and
interest various folks will help edit it
both conceptually and for a lot of
endless typos and bad grammar i'm prone
to and these are the folks who are in
the editor heading in the episode credit
rules and we are always looking for
volunteers to help with that
usually about a week later i'll finish
out the draft and record it minus the
sponsor section and schedule
announcements because at this point it's
typically two months before it airs or
more episode topics are rarely picked
less than three months before the air
and exceptions tend to be cases like
collaborations with other channels
so the episode sits for a couple months
while others get written and recorded
and typically two weeks out i start
working on the video and also typically
i put the video together as a segment
then put on our sponsor and announcement
and credits as separate bits
sometimes the episode and sponsor are
lined up with topic in mind but that
varies for instance i often work on a
video and have her visit the topic
months later from when i wrote it now
some new episode comes to mind as i do
that this is often why episodes in our
various series are three or four months
apart because i'll decide the new
thought that just came to bind some
potential episode and write it
continuing the series
other times i don't think there's quite
enough for an entire episode and set it
aside but a lot of times lately i've
ended up doing those as our extended
editions and i tend to like to line
those up with episodes curiosity stream
sponsors same as i usually try to shift
episodes mentioning various books to
episodes audible sponsors or ones that
are more math heavy to be a brilliant
sponsored episode and so on
anyway usually seven to ten days out i
have a draft video off to a production
crew to review for errors or glitches
and off to the sponsor for approval of
their spot and maybe one time before i
had to fix some particularly egregious
typo in the episode or rendering glitch
or a sponsor wants a correction like i
forgot to use their new logo or they'd
appreciate if i had a sentence or
rephrased one
maybe once a year or twice a year a
video needs a bigger fix and sometimes
stuff slips through like a misspelled
title for an episode which has happened
twice that i recall
after that typically a day or two before
it airs jacob our longest running
volunteer on the show will do the cover
out occasionally for bonus episodes i do
the cover but at least 95 percent of the
couples are his and have been since we
started doing weekly episodes back in
spring of 2016. jacob is amazing and i
am incredibly grateful to him for his
just years and years of help
i usually post the sponsor free version
and sometimes extended versions of the
episodes to nebula as soon as that cover
art arrives
this is more or less the process i
usually set up all the postings on
wednesday night and go hit the enter
button and release buttons to youtube
and all of all the platforms about nine
in the morning and then sit around with
my coffee making sure nothing went wrong
and responding some comments on the
episode from you guys
that is pretty much the process for
those who are curious it's a little
different for our bonus episodes and
collabs but i tend to be a bit of a
creature of habit otherwise every
creator does it differently though so if
you are one or thinking of becoming one
don't assume my routine is the best one
for you it just works well for me
alright with all that said let's get
back to your questions
all right then we're back
well we're going to kick right off with
a question from raven609 thank you raven
for your super chat and he says could
other planets have rainbows
oh yeah absolutely the
big thing that causes rainbows to exist
in our atmosphere is basically just that
that large amounts of moisture there
cause a prism effect a very large but
diffused prism
it doesn't have because my moisture
either it's not water that's doing that
that's the effect here it's just a
difference in the composition of the air
compared to where you're standing at
what's normal so any large weather
change any kind of change of atmospheric
pressure moisture or some other gas even
not a plant that's supposed to be like
helium and hydrogen might have some of
that too so rainbows should be pretty
much everywhere that has an atmosphere
halo pitter from humankind development
what do you think
what research that we should focus on
here on earth right now so use that one
more time for humankind development what
research should we focus on here on
earth right now
um
for the betterment of humanity in
general i i always take the attitude
that we can walk and chew bubble gum at
the same time you know it's like what
energy to invest into all of them you
know i even say you know keep keep
trying to improve uh coal and oil
technologies because the better you get
with them the better you can be
efficient with them
uh
what ones help us out in the house with
education
and it helps us with uh less stress in
our lives you know thanks like your
psychology your sociology those help too
just the whole thing you know there's
there's a lot of knowledge out there we
should not be
uh avoiding researching any one of those
again we can walk and chew up at the
same time it sounds more like wok chew
bubble gum snap your fingers and click
your fields oh yeah i juggle some too
yeah
harrison slocum says would life on a
rogue planet evolve more quickly than
life on a planet that is gravitationally
bound to a star due to general
relativistic gravitational time dilution
uh no
uh first uh there was virtually no
difference in the gravity on a rogue
planet compared to you know inside the
solar system
very loosely i said it's a very loose
rule of thumb if you plug in the orbital
velocity or the velocity of the given
object you know to escape from another
body gravitationally
into your normal special relativity
equation that we'll tell you about the
time dilations from that
the escape velocity from where you're at
and you'll find that hours at like 50
kilometers per second from the solar
system whatever is something in that
zone is
nowhere near enough to really be
significant in a relativistic effect and
the other of course is
you know all things being exactly equal
yes that for the off the galactic core
if you're an intellectual void if you're
deep in a soft space far from the star
yes time runs just a little bit faster
we're talking billions of of of a
difference
and then you say well what's actually
making life on that planet viable
and it's got very little energy so very
low biodiversity very little overall
biomass very thin um civilizations in
terms of being able to source themselves
so times are able to fastly over there's
so little energy that it does you know
that that one is so tiny compared to the
other it's
just uh really not a factor but yes time
does temporarily run just a little bit
faster in the voids
all right antonio sanford have you
looked at spin launch
and what are your thoughts on a
non-rocket launch system
um you know i'm actually not positive if
i'm thinking of the spin launch thing
that that is the actual spin launch but
i'm guessing that that's the idea of a
of a non-linear accelerator like a silky
look accelerator that would spin you up
and kind of um
uh oh my word what's that called a
helicopter no the thing that david
killed goliath with what was that called
slingshot yeah something shot you out
so i was thinking boomerang but yes
you don't want any space launch system
that's based on boomerang technology
once you send it out you do not want it
coming back home until it's had a chance
to slow down
uh but a slingshot um you know that that
approach just spins throughout very fast
and toss yet that is viable
but mostly for cargo right it has
because all has to do with the
acceleration rate and that's your
turning radius there a 1g
circular acceleration
it would be the same as albany earth
right right here at the atmospheric
level i think that's kind of like those
little tubes that my
uh yes
and nephews got for christmas and you
put a little thing in it you spin it
around and they just go flying all over
the place and that is a classic uh
system like you take a hose with a
pebble in it and swing around oh dear
um that's
not a bad way to throw cargo out there
it'll be a little bit different in that
case how you say yep but it's not good
for people launches
sounds painful
whiplash here i come i will probably
pancake you my my chiropractor would
like that whiplash here i come
i know 10 chiropractors agree slingshot
technology is great for over launch and
transfer but not for people all right
this is new hi isaac and sarah what is
the best way for starlifting metals from
non-convective stars thanks
oh um that's a tricky one okay so the
idea of star lifting is that most stars
have a lot of fao elements in them and
because they're convective much like a
soup those heavier elements have they
don't settle into the core they get made
more of the core but the ones that are
pre-existing there you know they don't
sink down it just constantly is bubbling
and frothing some stars are more
convective than others some are
basically not convective
um
and in that case you would expect the
heavier materials to start selling now
towards the bottom how would you get
those out of there um and i would say in
a case like that the approach i would
take would be to um
mirror around that sun put a big big
shell of reflective materials around it
like not say a whole show either you
could do a static or lag height type
setup on that with mios all around it's
kind of global though and bouncing that
light back down on the star in general
this will heat that star up and that
should cause it to get more convective
if it wasn't convective uh if it was one
of the star types that there's a number
of ranges that various ads um
so you should be able to bounce into a
more convective stage that's still going
to require a lot of patience though you
might be looking at millions of years
wait to get the voice practical and if
that doesn't work your other good bet is
just to use that starting technology to
stop pulling matter off
in large quantity and then using
something like fusion or black hole
generator to run power to keep stripping
the thing down
and i'll get you those metals too
all right we have super chat from knife
text have you ever read deep time by
gregory binford
um surprisingly no um i'm a big benford
fan um this is
probably though the only series i can
think of right now of his that i've
actually read in detail would be the
galactic core
black galactic central saga which is
very good and of course he was one of
the three authors the three bees that
did the second foundation trilogy after
isaac asthma's death gregory bayer greg
benford and um and david brin
and uh if you have not read either of
those three authors you're missing out
on a lot go read that but i have not
actually read that to your book myself
and i probably should be adding that to
the list he's also got a suggestion that
a video with your take on deep time
messages would be quite interesting
i'll have to add that to the list of
things to read though
okay i'll add it to the list deep
time
by gregory benford
all right
asmodius you don't need to answer this
but if you were to get another round of
laryngitis would using text to speech be
tempting just to keep your schedule
um
i think if i if if i well first i record
all of our episodes this is the one time
i'm really live once i do this
interviews i record all the episodes
within a week or two of me actually
drafting them
um and since i dropped them about two to
three months out that's part of why i do
that in case i lose my voice
um and uh you know the the
live streams i know are never as good a
voice as the obviously the narrated
scripted ones but uh i think i would
just probably have canceled if it been
much worse than it was today and
research for another time
um
and uh if i had lost my voice for a few
well like more than a month in a row i
would probably
you know that's what i would have spoken
at but for like a month if i lost it as
a good speaking quality voice
um it was definitely i probably would
ask
well i'd probably stop by asking you
john michael goudier if he felt like the
narrating temporarily but one of the
crew maybe jerry going he's got a good
voice on him then we'd find some people
to temporarily guest narrate the
episodes until my voice got back and if
it wasn't recovering then yeah i might
consider a a
a sp a text a voice system but uh
probably not they're a little choppy i
think we just go with a well
we probably just go with an actual
narrator at that point of like a pro
[Music]
albert jackinson hey isaac will space
telescope capabilities ever have an
improvement limit
and if not or if the limit is far beyond
what we have now
what applications would these
hypothetical space telescopes have
um you know our episode mega telescopes
looks at the kind of the big extent of
how far you could go with that and in
the extreme sense you could actually
build something that was galaxy sized i
don't know why you would ever do that
but you could um your real limitation is
going to be
what is the maximum resolution we ever
need to see
and what's the maximum we can actually
see and right now that maximum
resolution is what like 90 well 46
billion light years away from a factor
standpoint and um
that is kind of where you're going to
get your limit of saying how big is
there any reason to ever actually build
these things and my guess would be that
that would still be you build ones that
were plant-sized in terms of diameter
probably way less than asteroid but
plant size and diameter see the mega
telescopes episode
caleb during i believe that you've
mentioned that enough stars in one area
can create
uh
an event horizon without a singularity
if even light couldn't escape how could
matter avoid collapse
um okay so
well let's see how we go about this
usually when i'm talking about that i'm
not actually talking about trying to
crunch things into a singular audio that
that's not really the goal of like a
birch planet or
a met dyson support
globular dyson sworn some of that was
what me and steve bow is a nickname
thing
excuse me uh usually to go over there
was to get as close as you could to an
event horizon but i actually get over it
um you do not have to have a black hole
with a single layer you're having a vent
horizon as an example if i'm
accelerating away from something that's
not quite a black hole like a neutron
star
uh they would get to be a point where
the gravity of that neutron star plus my
own acceleration
did not allow light for that thing to
ever actually reach me and it would
disappear
to me right
um and that's what appealed to me you
have an inventories right there
um
same as you're falling towards a black
hole you'll never reach the event
horizon if you're moving towards it very
quickly the black holes of horizon will
seem to contract in size
um because the escape velocity between
you and that lie at the moment has
changed
um how that said right there's nothing
about singularity that would assume it's
necessary to having a black hole but
once you start counting stuff together
you will get frame dragging
and that will eventually cause stuff
that the key is orbiting fall in
usually we talk about trying to escape
into event horizon we're assuming some
active method trying to prevent that
that we don't have yet but uh you're not
dead from crossing about horizon time
doesn't stop the end of the horizon it
just means that and reverse does not fix
things in space either they're always
between one object and another based on
their speeds
so it's not like a wall um uh and so you
could be an event horizon vote to other
people and not be in one relationship
with those beneath you but if i have two
black holes like this they will
eventually merge but when they get close
enough their event horizons touch even
though they have singularities they're
not touching they'll want you to one big
one
instead the event horizons that's how
that works out the evangelize is not
really part of the black hole it's just
the horizon with which events cannot be
seen i mean the blackboard towards the
singularity of individual mass it's not
the same concept so see our black hole
series for more discussion of that topic
we have a few more questions on black
holes but before we get there pastel
assassin says is it possible to detect
vacuum decay in a region of the universe
through telescopes like say through
gravitational lensing before it's
arrived on earth now
vacuum decay when we're talking about
that that that idea of the universe kind
of is flattening out to a next lower
state than what we thought of as the
vacuum that would be moving at the speed
of light gravity was the speed of light
that was the speed of light the light
from it will move the speed of light
basically every one of those effects
will be moving at the same speed uh and
so you shouldn't have any real full
warning of that um
i
don't know for someone that might like
with neutrinos just a little bit less
the speed of light there might be some
leading edge that you get to see in
advance which if it was very 99.9
percent of the speed of light and uh
that traveled out would have and you're
a billion light years away would still
give you a million years of fault
warning
but i would say for the most part
assuming you wouldn't have any
forewarning in that and gravitational
energy itself shouldn't help you with
that
from halo pitter how do you imagine the
order of colonizing solar systems will
look like leo moon asteroid belt
shelby and wounds
in terms of what order we develop yes
low earth orbit would always be the
first place we really developed for us
department of redundancy department
the the moon would be the other one that
you'd be advancing even for like middle
and uh high orbit or just geostationary
there's a certain place you're going to
develop very heavily like rg or
stationary ring should be one of the
first things that really gets developed
besides low earth orbit because it's of
special note pretty dense and useful the
moon will be a place we develop very
heavily the lagrange points four and
five especially for the earth moon and
the earth sun system should be heavily
developed much as we got james webb
telescope going to lagrange ii right now
because that's a special value
after that it just comes down to what is
actually useful or what we really want
to do
there is no real advantage going to mars
other than to
improve our technology and get some sort
of other planet colonized
however the asteroids might be useful
because of mineral wealth for instance
if that turns out to be true then they'd
be great and they'd be very rapidly
developed kind of the same thing going
on for the jovian moons if you decide
you need a lot of water you don't want
to go through an atmosphere to get it
like ours those are good sources so the
development is very technology-based and
it's not going to really fall out but it
won't really be all that much distance
based right we could easily see kuiper
um
about developments before we were doing
anything on venus for instance even
though venus might be the easiest place
to tail for them
all right sadistic serif says why isn't
anyone working on a launch system like
the launch loop or skyhook it seems like
space billionaires should be all over
that instead of limiting themselves to
rockets
um
i would say the biggest thing holding
back things like the launch loop itself
is one that's that's a huge capital
investment just to do your basic
experimentation and two and this is a
lot the last from the arch loop right a
big point keith lost himself made on
that actually
he liked our episode on it but want to
remind me that we didn't have very good
magnetic shields in time and it was a
great honor to hear from that and i'm
very glad he liked the episode but uh
his own opinion is that the biggest
horde on the lobster loop was that our
best magnetic insulator right now is mu
metal so you don't get cheap uh cheap
superconductors
um
we have to worry about the effect of you
know not you know put a lot of magnetic
shooting around stuff right now our
biggest way to avoid problems with
magnets is in terms of using long ones
is just distance you don't only get too
close to them but magnetic shielding is
probably something we need to really
improve before we can really do
something like a lost room loop
uh without a lot of extra effort the
technology works but it'll be a little
bit more complicated
as to skyhooks right um
that's can you mass produce graphing and
the answer is no we cannot mass produce
graphene yet it's nice long tempos when
we can that becomes more viable for
right now
the the sky hook is there it's doable
but and i would say this probably the
worst thing that's hurt a lot of these
alternative launch systems
is actually spacex the reusable rocket
or success is there sometimes
improvements to one technology
can actually hurt development of other
technologies because they are no longer
competitive because those other
improvements so
pros and cons they're not garnish
concepts they're probably on hold for in
a while because we've got these new
advances with reusable rockets
so we had a few more questions around
black holes and then uh just a few
others that i'm hoping we can get to
before we run out of time
floyd
yes lightning round on black holes floor
horabek is there a size or a mass limit
to black holes before they can turn into
plank stars would it need to collapse
like normal stars before it can turn
into a plank star um
well the idea behind a plank star is the
plank star is the in-between state
between a neutron or quark star and a
black hole itself
um
there's no real limitation on that i'd
say probably about three three solar
masses to do it naturally though you'd
have to check some of the chord and
molly but there's a lot of a lot of
assumptions there about quantum gravity
and how gravity works on that scale that
we don't know yet
okay and then from micah walton is it
possible to have a black hole without a
singularity like a bunch of stars
orbiting in a small area absolutely
exactly like we were talking before
that's that's the idea occurring for
instance uh a black hole just has to do
with an area where the escape velocity
from it to another area
is higher than the speed of light and
that doesn't require that i'll be
clumped together in one spot okay
um we have a super chat from
thumb ugly have you ever seen space
above and beyond there is a neat
indo-exo
atmospheric fighter called sa-43
hammerhead if you've seen it what do you
all think space about beyond was i want
to say late 90s was a good good tv show
there was only one season maybe two very
interesting show i'd recommend funny on
netflix with scott that's uh got some
interesting takes on aliens and and
artificial intelligence as well as well
as uh
people being born and raised in tanks
next
vincent walden rivera i'm 22 as of 2021
will radical life extension happen in my
lifetime and if so when can we expect it
i sure hope so
if people always ask me what technology
i most want to see invented in my
lifetime i would say life extension
technology
i think that
i'd say that there's a better than 15
chance of being discovered before the
end of the century and the way that we
get takeoff speed that allows effective
biological immortality
rated thank you for your super chat he
says happy holidays everyone i'm
listening while cooking
once food can be sustainably grown in a
low g environment lunar martian etc what
might meal preparation look like
some there's a nice little astronomy a
space station episode from chris
hadfield on cooking up the space station
that i would recommend everyone go watch
at some point in time just cooking on
the space station um
cooking in low gravity it would be an
interesting challenge especially because
again fire is like a bit of a ball there
as opposed to like a flamingo
airport but i think meal prep there
would probably involve a centrifuge
quite often so other uses for blender
i don't want all my food blended so they
better work on those technologies
bam unlimited good afternoon isaac what
do you think will be the biggest
economic driver for space travel within
the next few decades for space travel um
there's gold in them there asteroids i
would actually bet probably either the
mining industrial resources aspect of
the moon or the asteroids or power
satellites those two are the two big
ones to me the one other exception would
be anything that allows metallology or
chemistry at a growth scale using
microgravity that's beneficial so like
if someone finds out the new equivalent
of the silicon semiconductor can be made
in zero gravity that should push right
there
and dewal thank you also for your super
chat any validity to concept dark matter
being proof that there are alternate
universes because the concept of
gravitational particle particle moves
through dimensions and we are not
detecting stellar bodies in other
universes if not why
i i know this is very popular to discuss
the scenario that gravity uh some of the
gravity theories that had to do with
like gravity being much much weaker
because it goes through all the various
other multiverses and things like that
but i i think that in all those cases we
really need to put that on hold do we
actually have at least an experiment
that could test for false reliability on
these things i love the mathematical
models but i tend to keep keeping
limited insider field on that because
they get the folks head as though
they're almost already proven and uh
they're really not stretched and
i don't think that's i think we've
gotten a little too speculative about
what gravity
does at the multiverse level so
yeager says what's your opinion on the
theory that dark energy is negative
energy that came about from the big bang
to keep the universe at a net zero yeah
that's possible uh i the dark energy is
that we we only know it by the fact that
caused the universe to expand um
and if it was causing that because of
keeping the universe as a
zero sum as it were um that would
certainly allow it except the problem
with dark energy is that we call it that
because it's the energy of sp of new
space appearing and it's a positive
amount of energy so you have to find out
where that negative uh counter energy
was coming from and uh i don't see that
necessarily on the radar uh as something
we'd be able to locate anytime soon if
that was the case so it's not the one i
go for but it's called the people
without
paul zaikez thank you so much for your
super chat he said somebody mentioned
chemical rockets could get to mars
without the need of spin gravity being
required what do you think
um chemical rockets can definitely get
us to mars without needing spin gravity
the question is whether or not we'd want
to do that um
like a fission rocket or fusion rocket
eventually allow you to go to some place
where the the amount of time you spent
is not going to hurt you for low gravity
but we already have chemical rocket bone
capability to get some mowers in less
than a year if we want to and we had
people on the space station that long
too
um so it's like we can't get people to
live there and there was no sign like
our astronauts are up there for you or
any risk of actually dying from low
gravity but they're going to be health
complications
um
but i don't know why you wouldn't just
spin the rocket anyway even just a very
minor amount you probably would always
build any interplanetary ship with spin
capability
um even ones that have something like
the epstein driver you just cannot stop
burn you still wouldn't waste that fuel
so you probably still have a spring
section so i don't think we'd ever seen
interplanetary craft that didn't try to
incorporate some spin gravity into it
unless we had artificial gravity like we
see in sci-fi last question for the day
from videographer experience isaac do
you have any specific hopes for new
discoveries to be made
soon by the jwst so we're going to end
on the same note we began uh james webb
space telescope um
well
seeing that launch i ate this weird the
first thing i thought is maybe winds of
winter by george all morning we'll
finally come out um but we we will see i
i i'm really looking forward to it but i
i'm just going to keep my expectations
there until we actually get that data in
and i'd say
ask me again another year or so but you
already know the answer by then anyway
so
and that's it for 2021 except we still
have the other episode coming up on
december 30th um challenges for the next
100 years
and uh that will finish up for the day
and for the year so thank you all for
joining us if i missed your question
especially with super chat please get
down into the comment section and i'll
try to get back to it next day or so to
to get you answered on that if we can
and using text
technology using text to text technology
yes
in the meantime i am going to grab me
some hot tea and some soup and
get my voice back and
