good afternoon everyone and welcome to
your SFA a live stream queue a monthly
event we just go ahead and get right
into questions in a second for upcoming
events we'll discuss them more on the
brake at the half hour mark but we will
be having a discord session right after
this for live chat for any questions you
miss and go ahead and start getting
those questions and now try to keep them
as neat as possible almost all being to
them we do have a couple of them to
begin with right from the get-go and we
were going to get started
Albert Jackson s space fighters or soon
to be useless as to my understanding
they are not would there be any
situations in a space war where an
engagement between two factions fighters
what a core it's not the idea that a
space fighter is necessarily I use this
object it's more the idea that a human
piloting one's not gonna be able are
good everything you're doing in space
there's no a or there's no Hills there's
no mountains so even those weapons that
aren't Lightspeed like a laser or
directed energy weapon are not gonna
have an easy time missing there's really
no way to spook them too well and most
of the ways you'd avoid that or by doing
very high acceleration maneuvers and
realistically to dodge a laser beam you
know talking about trying to engage
someone a couple hundred km I was
killing those at most and that from even
though you need to be like 100 G bones
you just not gonna get out of the human
now cyborg Oh an artificial intelligence
probably could and the only reason you
using something like that is to get in
really close so you have to be using
something that's light be onboard fast
and doesn't run out of fuel it doesn't
matter if your spaceship can do a
hundred G bond for one second because
it's done that oh and it's done you're
not reacting to things that you have
already gotten shot at you're reacting
to the possibility somebody might shoot
at you so for instance if I see somebody
pointed gun at me in space it's too late
to do anything especially pizza ladies
don't mean it's gonna already hit me by
the time I'm seeing it what try to do is
create a zone of uncertainty around
yourself that you cannot that they
cannot guess so you do something we call
and walk basically flipping a coin so
you're gonna be up or down or left or
right just a little bit and that
unpredictability has been going on
constantly if they don't know where you
are or where you're going to be when
they are light gets to you when they see
you then you have a certain little
window you can dodge around in but you
have to be generating that constantly or
else you're not going to be able to do
anything until the dodging our next
question the speech a falling into a
black hole ignoring damage would you
evaporate from Hawking radiation before
you past the event horizon no Hawking
radiation is very very minor on
something like a normal black hole and
it's it's being created by the black
hole's event horizon not by you falling
into it when you fall into a black hole
you'd be with the pardon tone in the
part of its accretion disk but the
Hawking radiation itself from a normal
solar mass black hole is so small that
even though it's like gamma radiation
you have promise picking up with a
Geiger counter it's only the much
smaller ones that produce an awful lot
of it a Hawking radiation goes up you
know exponentially as you lower the mass
the black hole or so we believe it's
actually kind of interesting thing as
theory predicts it but we will puppy
find Hawking radiation on micro black
hole were you've made before we actually
a chance to measure one because with
anything that we find and the nearest
won't know is 3,000 light years away
though there are probably close ones
you'd have to have one that was
completely sealed off from the outside
universe so nothing was falling into
direct your checks and then you need a
really sensitive machine a really
sensitive Geiger counter to actually
detect any hawking radiation on
something that big just cuz it's so
small that's why they live so long
Valencia Bell asks if humans ever
traveled the universe in order to
colonize varying planets with living
species would would it not be a good
idea for us to inject ourselves with
alien DNA in order to live alongside
them you know I've never injected myself
with cat DNA before in order to in order
to get along better with my cats
but I mean it's an option certainly that
you would talk about hi bidding somebody
to be more like an alien I think if you
were the ambassador or to an alien
planet
you might go for an Android that looked
very much like them that you were
uploading your mind into or that maybe
have a cloned body it kind of gets to be
the same thing at that point and that
might be about to go or more likely you
might just live in a dome or a space
station and just toss them by you know
audio or some faked up screen that
mimics your behavior and translate it
into what the human responses would be
you're talking to an alien and it looks
surprised and normally we go and but for
an alien they might be out and you don't
know what that expression is gonna be
like so you probably have some kind of
translation program that was not just
translating your wars literally but all
your euphemisms facial expressions
appropriate pauses and so on it whatever
they useful language might not be vocal
they might blink their eyes and have
conversations that take place over
milliseconds or months you don't really
know what it's like but I mean I guess
with aliens in general the idea that you
could just live and walk among them and
I was watching or what episodes of
Babylon 5 recently a funny movies played
Mass Effect Babylon 5 is kind of the
source material for a lot of that there
you've got the the Ambassador oil
station where all the aliens walk around
and that's such a neat idea we all can't
love that in science fiction but from a
realistic perspective that probably that
would happen you'll probably only talk
in very artificial correspondence way
it's more like email or Facebook then
you would um a live hand hand you know
shaking things how are you doing today
is just not gonna be the way that
happens in all probability this of
course doesn't mean that we have
actually to meet any but if you really
wanted to live in an alien civilization
I think you probably would have to do a
lot more and just have a you know an
Android or DNA that that match there's
you know by that match there's I think
you'd have to have a lot of brain
restructuring arguably to the point that
you're not really human anymore you know
when you go visit another country you
need to assimilate to that culture but
you still human and so are they even
when I'm talking to my cat for instance
we were still from the same you know we
all cousins 60 times when
million times removed we could get along
you know we have similar interest
backgrounds evolution but you're not
gonna have as much that with aliens
you know you share a lot of similar
things like an interesting math sub bada
asks can we get some new SFI a
merchandise probably in the future I
think we're going to do some tote bags
or some other things um we're definitely
have to expand that I have to admit I I
tend to get distracted if my should stay
distracted I tend to focus on getting
the episodes done and all the other
things were doing like nebula for
instance then he was streaming service
that's been in the work for months and
the prep work for that to get an episode
that was original for that that was
really gonna run on the channel but
there wasn't a good place to put it this
weekend so I thought well why don't we
use it for the live streaming service
instead you know it's a bit of a kick
for you but the weekly episodes are the
focus and a lot of the other channel
stuff kinda follows the side but we
won't get around to doing something to
expand that at some point in the future
although with me that could be months
the anime asks how do you think we will
be able to prevent global warming or
voices prevent major damage to
ecosystems etc or where we learn that
the hard way where humanity is concerned
we learn everything the hard way um you
know I don't want to sound pessimistic
about that topic or sound too like hard
or like it's not really a big problem
but I do tend to think climatological
damaged ecosystem damage these kind of
things are things that we do you often
have to learn you know we have to learn
to appreciate these things kinda the
whole way by losing some of them
occasionally we all getting better at
that you know if you look at but I hate
to pick on London but the joke about
London being covered in smog for pretty
much the entire 19th century soot and
ash everywhere that's a you know that's
the place we started that's you know
kinda your center point for the
Industrial Revolution and you know we've
gotten a lot cleaner a lot better since
then we also got a lot more numerous lot
more industrialized though so there was
a there's a lot things we do to
potentially we've also mitigate things
like this though like with with extinct
species you could take samples for DNA
frozen digital whatever and then bring
them back later on in some creature that
was very similar to them or keep a very
small number
Lyde provide a social continuity while
you got all the genetic diversity frozen
and you're just gonna bring them back
not an ideal solution but it is a
solution that would walk same you know
if you got the planet warming up for
some reason or cooling down you can
potentially interfere with that with
orbital meals or shades and those aren't
really all that expensive once you've
got an industrialized presence in space
you do have to have that infrastructure
you're talking about making you know
millions of square miles of square
kilometres of sale or meal and those
only had to be a thickest tin foil on
earth we could easily do that that minos
not that cheap which did we talk about
billions of dollars but up in space
right now even though that's not that
heavy that would still be a little bit
price prohibitive we could do it but
you'd be looking at potentially spending
hundreds of billions if not low
trillions on something at that and more
importantly having to regenerate that
every few years Oh every decade or so
depending on how stable the stuff was so
that's not really an ideal solution just
at this moment there are a lot of other
ones that can be employed we did talk to
us on the North Point orth 2.0 and then
way back in the weather control and
geoengineering episodes Kendrick
antlered asks what is your opinion on
future post-scarcity economies and they
affect on the impetus to wage war mmm
think about Augustine's comments on
what's a what's a legitimate reason to
go to war what's our just reason for
what it's worth Amanda prior to that
while many people did kind of hold that
opinion it was often it so it perfectly
okay and legitimate to just go and
attack your neighbor because you want
their stuff and you could telling one
that's what you were doing huh we are
why are we attacking them we want their
stuff and you know technology is not the
thing that stops Wars from happening
what stops wars from happening is
removing the reasons why people want to
attack them yes that helps you know a
post-scarcity economy removes a lot of
those reasons but at the same time it's
about being a thoughtful and sober
society that that kind of thinks these
things through and I do think with a
post-scarcity economy you'd be more
likely to have
um a more thoughtful society ideally no
of course in some you might actually
have the exact reverse people are very
short-tempered and prone to go into war
because they're spoiled brats the answer
to all those things of course is that
you're not aiming for a post-scarcity
economy you're aiming for civilization
where they can be post-scarcity because
everybody's very educated trained
long-lived you know they are very
reasonable and idea I hate to say the
word enlightened because that often
carries a kind of impression racing
around and meditation so core together
but people who are thinking things
through critically thinking things
through with their you know reason mixed
with compassion and I like to think that
that would result from a post-scarcity
society that there's kind of a mutual
feedback but it's really hard to say you
don't really know what kind of economy a
post-scarcity civilizations gonna have
to often people say I'll be one with no
money and others would say it might be
an animal capitalist one because you
don't need much regulation in a case
like that but critically with a lot of
things like that if you have that much
technology and resources you can
probably make almost any system you want
walk so I don't think you can really
predict which systems or you know an
argument on single which plural systems
might be in place in a civilization like
that
geumhui pace asks will you ever do
scientific theories such as ein time
Einstein scribble color theory and the
possible ramifications from that theory
I don't know Einstein scribble color
theory you have to excuse me while you
might say it's allergy season some
little scratchy voice we don't really
tend to do too much the theories in deep
detail like an einstein-rosen bridge a
wormhole when you might talk about the
impact that was but one thing we're
never going to do on the channel is dig
into into general relativity it's not
something I really want to us to spend
time on going through all that math
we'll get to the basics but I'd like to
keep anything on the show reasonably
close to to algebra you know that was so
you don't have to know those things in
order to appreciate the topic um you
know we don't try to dumb things down
the channel I though but at the same
time I don't want people to feel like
they can't talk about physics
having to go take calculus and
differential equations and all those are
the fun things although they actually
all fun once you learn them and I know a
lot of people have a little bit of a
fear of math but it is worth morning
Dwayne Peters asks how far away do you
need the neo space failing aliens are
are they within ten lightyears one
thousand a million a billion way all the
newest alien civilizations at this point
in time I tend to feel that they are
none within not only this galaxy but
probably the super colossal and it could
be watefall than that - it's uh I don't
know we haven't really touched by the
Dyson dilemma a long time it's kind of
one of the basic concepts of the show
but it's you know an auto episode and I
already did it once so I don't really
like to redo it again will come upon 200
episodes now and actually think we've
actually gone over 200 feet include all
the panel's bonus episodes and things
but on the official chronology we'll
still short of that what about one what
do we write 198 the other day so we've
got a ways to go on on hitting 200 but
that's 200 episodes each which tends to
be about half an hour long and most
people really can't keep track of all
the material they also will probably be
doing redos of some of the concepts but
you just like to expand on them anyway
the Dyson dilemma or the Dyson dilemma
2.0 which I'd suggest washing since the
Dyson dilemma is episode 1 on the
channel it's got very bad at sound an
audio kind of goes through why we would
think there'll be no intelligent
civilizations
not only in all galaxies but inside a
super cluster and the basic reasoning
being that if they all at all like us
and doesn't have to be everyone let's
say 1 out of 10 civilizations pursues
the path we think that we would do which
is to kind of Dyson up and expand
everywhere and just kind of in soak all
the stores and use them for things not
necessarily power source evil you might
take them apart to use raw metal if
you're doing this approach where you're
basically expanding and kicking control
the resources in your Galaxy
no matter how you do that that's very
visible from galaxies and galaxies away
and we're looking about and we're not
seeing that we've scanned was a hundred
thousand galaxies nearest us in Kampen
nothing and if even one in 10 of those
doing that that approached and we should
have seen something of this England
within hundreds of millions of light
years so he'll so I think at this point
in time we can rule out any
civilizations within that within that
kind of window because you think some of
them would follow that path unless
something give me a reason why they
can't which for years and change later
nobody has actually done so I feel like
that was kind of stuck in place number
Jack asks what will happen to historical
buildings in the future what will be the
dominant architectural style I you know
you will have a tendency I think in any
given area to try to to keep a single
textual style for like that block for
instance we do that a lot where we can
and overtime against be a bit
mismatching to but I can't imagine her
several suddenly on a single
architectural style you know there was
wasn't Vitruvian approach where you just
kind of form and function nearly the
beauty of it comes from it being very
functional but even inside limitations
of that which kind of go away when you
have a lot of resource and get away with
doing things don't really all that
functional appearance there's so many
different ways you could do that you
know i don't i don't like portrayals the
future or show anything be basically
tinfoil by glassy glossy things always
joke about the new Star Trek reboot
films the JJ Abrams made it look like
the inside of an Apple store there was a
that and lens flares all over the place
I think you would still see a lot of old
wood and old you know classic designs
right in the middle of you know space
stations even so you're landing your
spaceship outside of what looks like a
no word for more bone just because you
know you're gonna have a mix of these
styles
changes mechanics McAlister asks have
you read the paper that claims the
scarcity of phosphorus in some policy of
us could be a contributor on the phony
paradox
yes I have I camera what's name right
now somebody wants to take that up and
post the comments that we appreciate in
the chat the reasoning is not bad
phosphorus is gonna be important for
life as we know it and that doesn't
assume you know life would depend on it
but you know he seems fairly large book
spent to be a father
mr. penance I haven't seen anything that
would indicate that phosphorus was so
rare that earth would be the anomaly if
anything we can't gain to see a more
about look back with a young oceans moon
concept that we might not have these
oceans we've got if it weren't for the
moon being made by that crash whenthe I
had all the earth but I mean it's only
it's a filter no doubt and it could be
that you just don't gonna get species
popping up till then but you know
there'll be plants there were a billion
years older than all that would have the
same thoughts content is us or two
billion even you've got plenty of stars
that systems that have the right
metallicity for that and so we all the
civilizations that have a two billion
year head start on us we're the ones 100
billion y'all had stone us we're the
ones with a million a year head start on
us even plants though younger than us
could easily have civilizations that
that arose to to where we are fast or
you know we just talk about what if room
hadn't fallen or what if Greece had told
me stuff all around or what if China you
know any number of these civilizations
that were around had a ghastly different
attack might have been on the moon
centuries ago and that's me what if he
discovered ceramics 30,000 years ago and
we discovered fire or a million years
ago we didn't really do ceramics or
metal until the last few thousand years
about ten thousand years that's a long
gap of time and so we start spending out
to gaps of a billion years it gets kind
of ridiculous place anything as an as a
filter as a strong filter on alien
civilizations that you can't show you
know only popped up recently there's a
war because there's something like a
billion years first what difference does
it make it was something to only
happened what billion years ago anyway
they got tons of plants that would
qualify thank you dan Rob you have said
that FTL would enable time travel could
you explain how oh I'm just talking
about wanting to explain general
relativity will do these special
relativity answer all quick as you speed
up and approach the speed of light time
for you begins to slow down if you could
actually get to the speed of light you
would experience no time passage photons
don't experience time neutrinos would
experience virtually none assuming they
do actually have proper mass
anything you know you're going this is
no
time and as we approach the speed of
light time slows slows slows and then if
you're going faster the speed of light
and you plunge those same numbers in and
you can do this you get an imaginary
time that would usually call that
reverse time in this case because the
square root of negative 1 is an
imaginary number but you're basically
getting a negative number out of the
passage for time and that's the special
relativity answer on that the that
confuse be case with general relativity
and things like that though to anything
we can find that whatever actually let
you go fashion light through space would
produce that effect and you can mimic
that effect with things like wormholes
for instance even though you're not
going through space they go it doesn't
have ones like the Alcubierre drive
because that's not a classic FTL system
that is destroying the space right in
front of you that's why that is allowed
under known physics if you've access to
negative metal correspond with negative
meadow and negative energy and sort of a
very quantum level like at the basic
foam is that though is also will ion
negative or imaginary numbers to be true
so kind of the same thing they are
you're trying to get around an equation
that doesn't let you have negative
values in it because there are no
negative values in real-world stuff you
don't have a negative gallon of water or
any whale and they work fine on paper
you can have a negative gallon of water
on paper if you can find a negative
quantity in space that's great
and even we say well you got a negative
charge got a positive charge so you know
this is what you called them
it's you've got charge type a and then
were loss you know you got nothing a
down that's different
mm-hm it's not a measurement of quantity
mystery from Tau Ceti ass artificial
gravity in starships could you build
your ship around a neutron stove and
then to generate a gravitational field
yes yes you absolutely could and in
theory you could have like a thin layer
of neutronium
in your floor contains somehow it's too
thin layer it's dense enough that would
actually cause a gravitational field the
problem is that there's a lot of mass
that you have to stop pushing around so
even ignoring the palms containing that
kind of matter and keeping the field
from it kind of even um you still have
to use the same amount of mass to
generate the gravity that you would for
a planet it'd be a smaller one like
we're talking about in Ko and I
in black holes you can do those micro
planets but that is a lot of mass you
don't make a spaceship out of a black
hole that way except when you're just
trying to move tons of metal that way
like we discussed with a fleet of stores
but using was as a gigantic matter of
energy convert all very heavy ship but
it is possible it's just I would not
turn that you'd want to use neutron
stars if you if you can do micro black
holes you found the other hands you
can't do micro black holes or you can't
find somebody makes stable neutrons or
degenerate mentos you know white dwarf
matter it's a different type of
degenerate metal then yeah those might
be passed for official gravity but I'm
not seeing the reason to do that we use
the black hole that way because you can
use to convert matter to energy the can
really do that with a neutron star less
you want to push billion to be in a
black hole color is $9.99 a swatch what
are the chances of humans losing their
humaneness if they interbred with aliens
and would that possibly lead to historic
or race relations
you don't interbreed with aliens you can
mix with them in various fashions you
could probably scientifically weasel
something together that allows you to
create a hybrid but you know the
implication from breeding is that that's
a reasonably natural process and that's
not gonna be permitted you're not gonna
be able to crossbreed with Vulcans
because it's a fall fall different you
know biology and then even trying to
crossbreed with with an elephant it's
not gonna happen and we're talking about
mixing something together then that's
just something new that was inspired by
both it's it's the same as saying well
me and this alien got together to paint
up you know about painting oh well we
can do that together that's something
we've made together I guess that's a
hybrid any intelligence they've made
that way a person would be the same way
not to imply they wouldn't be a person
but you know that's that's the
interbreeding allowed they are Niko's
greek-ass there was a theory that after
falling in a supermassive black hole you
effectively fall into the same
singularity the one of the final blow
you mean okay the one of the final black
hole it nothing goes around the idea
that the singularity at the bottom of a
black hole is shared by all the other
black holes now some reasons why this
could be permitted
after having to you like gravity is the
weaker force but think about a very
basic level if all those black holes
will sharing the same point why isn't
the gravity outside of any individual
black hole way way strong core with a
combined mass of all those black holes
if that's what you're asking mr. Anoush
that has such interesting names here how
about an episode I'm making earth an
environmentalist dream what tech and
social solutions would be required
doesn't mean most humans leaving off you
know I'm not sure what qualifies as an
environmentalist dream might tend to
assume most people environmentalist um
if I have to leave this planet it's not
a dream for me and I wouldn't expect
anybody else to do that know what I
think it's required we talked about that
in the all ecology is episode I think
how in UK monopolist as as well you
don't have to decrease the number of
people on this planet to help you
ecology you just have to be very careful
about how you grow in ways that that
aren't going to be rampantly damaging
areas but you should be able to grow a
much larger population on earth and and
leave the Kohen ecology in place quite
safely you just have to exercise a
little bit of control restraint and and
and do a lot of research you know get
better at this stuff
stephen rice i asked what is your view
on the possibility of transdimensional
travel as soon as that me tells me what
transdimensional travel means i will
give you a viewpoint so i statement that
that term has gotten used so much in
science fiction that's kind of like hypo
space I can't talk about something who
has undefined properties you know we say
dimensions a lot to give you an idea
mass as a dimension length is dimension
time is dimension see what other
dimensions we have you can make a
dimension out of almost anything you
could do elephants horses apples to plot
out the dimensionality of how many
apples a elephant eats a year and we
talk about these other dimensions what
people usually of course mean is a
another dimension very much like we call
you a parallel reality or one that had
an extra dimension on it like you know
fourth physical dimension of
right angle to reality all ones where
these things were laid out differently
like mule a two-dimensional board by
this guy thought dimension college or
you know you can immediately us a paper
type of thing ones where you can wrap
yourself around to go to another place
these kind of things would all have very
different properties and try and talk
about how we travel to them would force
mean how knowing how do we actually
relate to them you know can these places
ever be more real to us than once we
just make up I don't head because you
can't communicate or travel between them
they might as well not exist you know
they do exist and we have no no concept
whatsoever for how we would actually
travel between these I guess maybe under
M theory Blaine find a cosmic brainz by
in theory you could tell with some all
you were wage could do that but we
haven't even found a way to test a
string theory yet so it's kinda iffy um
I'm gonna break and a couple more
questions football on the onio cylinder
does team plane and counter-rotation
direction have an advantage of lower
gravity hmm I guess would depend on how
big the field is how much that would
make a bit of a difference on we will do
an episode on space sports but I'd have
to actually run through the numbers on
that to see what that would look like so
I'm gonna just go ahead and pitch there
one other side well we'll address that
when we get to that episode which we
probably will do this summer Matthew
Campbell it's actually gonna be Museum
one of our editors heroes named Matthew
Campbell and that's also name of my
roommate from when I was working at the
Air Force Institute of Technology back
in 2000 he just recently contacted me
like right before the show to catch up
on times to different people by the way
anyway Matt asked I heard an
announcement from NASA that they are
planning another trip to the moon in
2024 ish are you aware of this and what
are your thoughts on how plausible it is
and like every time I hear our plans to
go to the moon and I'm happy to hear
them some of them are more serious than
others and as soon as somebody actually
puts together a you know a good solid
plan that has funding official funding
and actually has the schematics under
production then I'll begin to take it
more seriously porcelaine which is not
say it's not worthy of discussion but
[Music]
yes I would say that I'm glad to hear
they're doing one with NASA I don't see
2024 since we could do it if we really
wanted to I mean this is 50 your
technology but I don't see that
happening in 2024 just cuz it keeps
getting put off I'll be glad to be
proven wrong we're gonna go ahead and go
to a break and we will be back in about
Klimas while we are taking a quick break
it's a good chance to get some questions
in for all moderators to grab and
forward to me have you want to increase
the odds and we'll get answered and be
nice to all mods try to keep it clear
and concise and wash the typos however
we won't get to every question and
normally I come back in a while after
the live stream to watch the replay and
to answer any questions left in the
comments after today's show though we
will also be heavy a discord live chat
on the SFI a discord sovel linked in the
video description though we do ask
everyone to enable the push-to-talk
option and respect everyone else there
which is to say if you have already
asked a question try to let others get
in they was in before ASCII another and
don't talk over top of other people
especially when they are asking a
question or I'm trying to apply to it
you can also stick questions and replies
in the Tex channel attached to the audio
chat again though please remember to go
into your settings on discord and change
them to the push-to-talk before joining
the conversation
speaking of live talks for those of you
in the eastern Ohio and western
Pennsylvania region I've been invited by
our friends at the Carnegie Science
Center in Pittsburgh to give a talk next
Monday June 3rd and we'll also be having
a meet and greet for that event our
topic will be on black holes and details
and tickets are already available I'll
link to the event in the video
description that should be a fun evening
and I look forward to meeting some folks
in Paulsen if all that still none of SFI
a we have recently premiered a video on
the paperclip Maximizer on our new live
streaming service nebula and I'll link
that in the video description too you
can watch that with the free trial and
we will also be looking in
- arrangements or patreon supporters can
see those - but it's a brand-new and
experimental service so we'll be adding
features and improvements as we go also
if you'd like to support us on patreon
that's always appreciated and also
linked below as is our website
Isak althought nets where you can find
out other ways to donate the channel or
grab some awesome SFI a motion dies as
well as check out our forms and big
catalog of recommended books and now
back to all show
you
okay and we are back Nasmith ass Thank
You Nasmith do you think a man o energy
and vice versa can Votto is possible in
all in honey North Orion universe if so
could we direct it well enough for a
replicator could we talk about something
out there in a clock check video I
suppose we did kind of look at that in
the Santa Clause machine some of the
problems we have with with things along
those lines and I would say that an
actual matter of energy converter is
potentially possible I mean again we
have some options on the table for doing
things like that with a black hole for
instance but you're almost always can
get spillover and the amount of energy
being released when you're converting
stuff like that it's probably going to
be so huge relatively speaking that's
gonna be vaporizing everything is fast
you're trying to make it but there's
nothing that specifically prevents you
from 20 days of matter into a piece of
energy per se so that might be on the
table
advice for us to do energy in the mantle
but I don't think that's ever really the
approach you'd make and I'm not I'm
thinking that would really let you do
fast replication but maybe it's hard to
say whenever you're speculate about
things like clogged Tecates there's so
much guesswork to be done because
there's no real physical basis for that
speculation Isaac Smith must be another
Isaac Isaac Smith ass what technology
that you think will show up in your
lifetime are you looking forward to the
most life extension I'm looking forward
to life extension show I have in my
lifetime it's still one Vicks 86's do
you think we will reach a point in stem
where humans will need gene engineering
or cyber implants to be able to advance
these fields due to the increasing
breadth of knowledge and complexity you
know intelligence kind of a tricky thing
how fast you can do math is not
indicative of the concepts you can learn
about physics or science they are things
too complicated for us to think about we
tend to just assume that's the case I'm
not sure that's really true I think we
turn ever somewhat incorrect view of
intelligence though what the correct one
is I couldn't say it certainly will be
very handy for advancing those fields if
we could do things that would allow us
to cybernetically increase our
intelligence or speed above a 2 think
as said nick bostrom when touched by
super intelligence basing the three
types
speed intelligence where your same brain
thinking structural but you're just
speeding things up so like lévesque
universe seems slow down for you quality
super intelligence was the hardest one
to find that's the one that would
presumably lets you actually do more
complicated concepts you know the
quality intelligence being what I have
that tension pansies don't have you know
they the same brainpower that lets me
out think them as a group and of course
they're thought one being a group a
network intelligence
Matthew Swango thank you ass on black
holes was to say they aren't very large
powers of super dense material nothing
well the math kind of argues they might
be point like or that there would be one
Planck length accost Leicester Square
says I feel like they are always
portrayed as these tiny objects but I
invented them as huge dense balls
something that's Planck density would
fit the entire universe and this this
would be how dense something would be if
we were to reduce a singularity to about
the size of one Planck length you for
the entire universe and uh something
that would look like it fit on top of a
pinhead don't quote me on a number
that's very small and you know with a
black hole the idea is this something
just keeps crushing it but what keeps a
star from collapsing normally it's
fusion that that that you know stasis
that you get that equilibrium that you
get hydrostatic equilibrium that
prevents the thing from fire parks
generally heat so fast and the more you
press on more warms up when that runs
out you get that white dwarf degenerate
matter well it's the particles
individually this can't be pushed on
anymore by the push on those ho enough
they collapse into that next state of
generate degenerate matter which is what
gets you those neutron stars and then
for the longest time we thought after
that it would definitely collapse into a
singularity that it was just nothing
left it could hold it back and we just
keep collapsing until it couldn't
collapse anymore because there was no
such thing to collapse into a point like
dimension but then we the idea that we
may have a quark star which would be
something that's even denser a neutron
star though not much and we sometimes
think a neutron star might be having a
quark star it's Centaurs more layer that
was quick
Tyrael and then we have plank stalls
which is the idea that they might just
be compressed that extreme point but
they can't actually quite compress
anymore but it's hard to study what goes
on things like you know gravity at the
quantum scale because we don't really
have a quantum gravity theory yet that's
solid so they are not ice a point like
dimensions the same for something like
the Big Bang for instance we say the
universe started off as a point no we
don't say that at all what we say is
that it couldn't have been any smaller
than they'd fall this back we can see
because we don't actually only see it
about 300,000 years into the universe so
you get that big wall of plasma when the
whole universe was basically as dense as
a star as hot as a stall and we might
better see for the back and that by
looking at neutrinos background neutrino
radiation but we don't know for sure
that start off as a point like object
and even we say that we don't know about
that absorb or universe the original
universe might have an infinite size and
become to expand it could be infinite in
size now but we only see a certain
portion of it and we have reason to
believe that you may have been at the
use this absorber universe was once a
point-like or very close to it point
light doesn't necessary mean literally
no dimensionality - at all we have
reason to think there's though not a lot
but we also have no reason to think that
it's not so there's one of those things
we just need more information there
might be a tiny little thing in the
center of a black hole but are we very
tiny Thank You Cobra vipole yes he or
she asked when fusion becomes a viable
power source do you think that
atmospheric carbon capture on
utilization would provide the resources
needed for a post-scarcity Society no we
will be doing other absurd on fusion
recently soon too because that wonder
pull over on patreon we start that poll
open by the way if you want to vote and
only be open for a day or so for topics
that were selected on patreon for
upcoming episodes why do I say no on
that one if you have good sheep fusion
there's enough to have fusion yes you
have to have fusion that's producing
power cheaper then you know
significantly cheaper than other power
sources which is not necessary I
guarantee if you have power that is just
so cheap that you can you know get it
for 100 what we get at for now for
instance or maybe even 1/10 at that
point in time you can sell
call Ben right out of Yale if you want
to Tony right back in the gasoline which
is a handy way to make a type of battery
if you want to suck out even Waddle you
spend a lot of energy to do that but now
you've got gasoline that's good battery
for an engine but would that actually be
providing as much resources no not
really I mean it was a lot of carbon in
the atmosphere but not that much there's
a lot more carbon right any thought
feeds and we don't actually build that
many things out a call Ben a
civilization that only built stuff out
of graphene might find really pure
carbon extracted from sucking out a or
might be a good source for that but
that's all hard to say and that would
just be that specific material data
analysis toolkit asks what
mega-structure
are we closest to building who's
building a highway system right now it's
always hard to classify what a mega
structure is over the things we talk
about in the show I usually consider the
the onio so not to be currently forced
to make a structure we be building that
was habitable but then this question
would a solar collector that was um you
know like one millimetre thick but a
million miles square mile was you know
in Syria is that and make a structural
even though only a waste of you tons and
the other think is like the Great Wall
China or the pyramids that might count
or the various highway systems we use
but I usually put the onio on to us as
the force for your mega structural for
our discussions and I think we would be
in a position to build one of those
potentially in this century again
they're not high-tech it's just you have
to have a reason to build something like
that and they all very big and you had
to be able to source the matter for
anything like that from our earth or
have a really cheap source of metal for
that if we really invest into space are
we trying to say the orbital ring would
be a mega structure that we'd force
build because that's one unless you
start pulling matter up to build all
this stuff in space but the orbital ring
is a bit of a catch-22 you don't
necessary want to build something like
that until you have a lot of stuff in
space and so you might only have a make
a structure or two before you did that
but I would tend to say that the orbital
ring or an audio sound or word party be
are forced mega structures and I could
see either one of those being built in
the 24/7
it just depends - how quickly when I
push forward they're not super advanced
they're just very big investments the
author asks what would retail look like
on Space Station
like when we find a 7-eleven on Space
Station or what retail walked if in the
future I think you might find a 7-eleven
on a space station because people still
want to have something to drink coffee
you might have a Starbucks ale as to
whether retail walked if in the future
oh yeah when I was a kid in the 1980s
don't date me um some 26 when I was a
kid in the 1980s you know we didn't have
Walmart really at least not louder than
that and then wal mulk I came to
dominate the retail market and now
amazon is kindest placing that to you no
more individual department stores a lot
more mom-and-pop shops things change
with things like retail all the time but
little shops for conveniences for having
Mudge hat I could definitely see those
on a space station so trying to pick
more that's kind of hold though the real
pilot asks what could allow us to figure
out what's inside a black hole could we
ever actually see a singularity going
back to last normal quick we will talk
about a little bit in the space tourism
episode and a month or so what could
allow us to figure out what's inside a
black hole we could jump down one that's
the only thing whatever else to actually
conform you can work things out in
theory and theory can be pretty strong
remember we've never seen what's at the
center of on planets we've never even
done down to the mantle I don't know how
deep that bowl hole in Russia got but it
wasn't all the way down the mantle and
you're trying to drill deeper than that
that's not really on the table in the
near future there are ways you could
conceal I do that but they are pretty
extreme for very little in a way of
useful results and we don't really have
a lot of debates about what the the
center of the planet is made outside of
academic circles well I want to say it's
semantics debates but obviously they
bill pretty agreed on what the core is
made out of they're just all green oval
proportionality so that would mean
example is something that we can't
really see but I'm pretty confident
about if your models
good enough in that they were predicting
other things that you can measure that
they are falsifiable testable then you
can know what's going on inside a black
hole potentially but to actually get
experimental evidence of one the only
way I can see if we think that you could
have a look inside a black hole and
report about it violently I have a
report about but leave it would be if
you waited for that black hole to
evaporate and untold trillions of
trillions of trillions of trillions of
years and you could only do that on the
really long-lived ones like a classic
central one where they live even long
haul but you would not be able to escape
even then you know just because matter
and energy have a pre now that black
hole does not mean that information is a
little on a person so I think the only
way to actually find out would be to go
down one and you get to know help you
about it
and I think that might be interesting
for the future is we talked about using
these things as a place to live at the
end of the universe
um and that's quite probable in a lot of
potential scenarios I think you would
start to have people as those things
can't shut down right now to feel
whatever it is sad just go ahead and
jump down one to test the theory you
know polish like I mean there's nothing
else you've got nothing to lose a
certain point shadow asks most artists
and media impressions the future depicts
sleek skyscrapers and other like designs
how do you think this might affect
conservation efforts and historic sites
and decades or centuries you say
historic buildings are only interesting
once they've actually become historical
and so then people knock them down
because they all damaged rotten money
pits they're all quite a few cities
they've gone so overboard with their
historical preservation that they
they've seriously damaged their budget
and Sounion capabilities that in the
saying that as a county official um did
he could be very hard for economic
development if you got people are
declaring everything a historic site so
it is kind of weighing the difference
this aimlessly museum that was asking
how much mind you want to spend on
preservation of this or that I don't see
us knocking over something like you know
Abe Lincoln's log cabin you know I kind
of knock that over to build a skyscraper
on top and you surround it with
skyscrapers
you might dumb that over to create a
false effect of the original log cabin
site of trees though so and it's
possible some folks might decide well we
can't costly repair this and when you're
repairing a painting a house like that
you start running to that theseus's ship
issue or grandfather's access you aware
it's not really the original object
anymore you are placing a bit by bit as
some folks might say well we just upload
that into a digital construct people to
explore and touch and feel and not worry
about damaging so that might be one way
historical preservation goes especially
for items that don't likely go to cover
themselves with tourism revenue try to
speed up a bit here though again if we
don't get all your questions I just take
them as order as the mod send will from
the chat window feel free to leave them
in the comments don't get to them in a
couple hours when I come back to watch
the replay or bring them over to discord
chat and ask the mayor blind deal asks
what do you think about quark
engineering like making new atoms I
think that's an awesome idea
I just don't general principle you we
have six types of quarks and we also
have three different types of electrons
and neutrinos per se electrons are
leptons the electron the muon and the
Tau on six different types of quarks six
different types of leptons but all we
really use for a Camaro is the electron
the proton and the and the neutron and
the proton Neutron of both made out of
up and down walks using one's their
strange charm top or bottom quarks to
make matter out of it be awesome if we
can find its way to do it I'm sure
there'll be all sorts of new chemistry
new science we had out of something like
that how will you go about doing that
simple story because doesn't really look
like the universe provides those and
making them and keeping them stable cuz
they have very short lives is another
matter CEO asks do you think space
combat will ever core outside of all
cavies mmm relativistic kill vehicles we
thought something at somebody at near
the speed of light
that's a relativistic cure device kill
missile call which would being the
weapons potentially all cavies so there
are slow ordens soccer sensor that work
just fine though I mean
types of flack you we were talking about
fight it was earlier on in the in the
livestream if somebody's attacked me
from just a few thousand kilometres away
there might be occasions but you would
feel you'll be more reasonable to apply
with something that was a little bit
slower speed speed is always handy for
you ordnance but there's a lot of things
that you can just do battle you know and
and one thing to keep in mind is that
with these really fast reaction times
you guys think that Scott material like
a mass drive or you could just you could
have a slow response just from trying to
rotate the can the place no matter how
fast you can aim just because the gun
has to actually move on its housing or
it's going to get shot I mean it's going
to you know not be in the right
direction it might rip itself off just
from trying to torn that fast but I do
think that there will be a preference
towards some things that move as fast as
you can get them which relativistically
hmm the anti-fusion asks what would you
counter argument be to someone saying
that lunar water ice is likely unusable
due to contamination with home for
regolith I'll be specially when made
that argument um you can pull the water
out of any number of things to make it
obviously you want a minimum amount of
effort involved you want something you
can filter very easily without having
like boil at for instance um to distill
it you want something something to
damage your filters will cast a
replacement of your fell to us to but
certainly it's a lot easier to get water
ice from moon if you are in the moon
then to bring it in from earth so it's
it's a relative amount of airport there
might be one of those things though
where it's kind of power intensive so
you ran to in a two-week phase that you
had a lot of light on the moon and then
you shut those operations down doing the
cold phase because you're just trying to
collect water crystal driver asks do you
think advances in material science will
be the last invention possible or a
manipulation of energy like it I can't
help if your DNA is underutilized in new
tech hmm meta material is office a lot
of really advanced new technologies that
we could potentially use that do things
billing expect and the one that I would
think most valuable off time I had I
should say for metamaterials would be
something it was actually very good as a
magnet
shield because that's the one that
really lets us use superconductors um
every time we have a superconductor we
talk about active support force been
asking a warm temperature one one that
we didn't have to cool down they'll
keeping stuff cause and so hard in space
you short of him light but the other
problem is that those magnetic fields
those are generating very subject
interference by other magnetic fields
and you really can't shield against
magnetic materials the best we've got
right now is something called a moon
metal the the M and M U and there is the
symbol we use for magnetic so magnetic
material basically and that's not ideal
not anyway in New York good enough but
meta materials do offer some options for
magnetic shielding there might be really
valuable and yeah I would say DNA is
underutilized new tech as well we do
have an episode two episodes coming up
on that we have space whales coming up
at was that the beginning of August or
the individual I somewhere sometime in
July and we also have a bonus episode
because the episode went too long called
void ecology that Jerry go and helped me
write up yeah she was from short stories
forward to one of the editors here was
also an author I said normally on our
breaks of weight we've been highlighting
one of the folks who helps out on a team
a little bit of rush this week so you
just had that one or break in there but
this guy worth mentioning Jerry go on
one of our editors here who also helps
write episodes sometimes does uh there's
some books as well which we'll mention
on that episode but we have two episodes
coming up basically one on Sunday and
then went on Thursday void ecology and
space Wales we're going to try to look a
bit more biotechnology in the future in
terms of space geez Sebastian asks are
we already capable of starting a Dyson
swarm storing one yes yeah I mean
there's nothing advanced to a Dyson
swarm technologically speaking we
already have the technology to mind
things like that in space is just skiing
the stuff up there getting that that for
step up there that lets you kind of
bootstrap what you're doing and I think
just notice how head model my head is on
the video anyway we do have the
technology to manufacture stuff in space
just fine to teleport asteroids and
things like that that we had to
find those passes a bit and we just have
to get that infrastructure in place
forced anything that means that cheaper
would make it easier but there's nothing
really advanced about building a Dyson
swarm it's just getting your
infrastructure started and rolling you
know that forced colonial step of sing
about an industrial moving base that
self-sustaining at that point once
you're outside the Earth's gravity well
it gets so easy to keep up getting new
things up there you know once you can
build stuff in space opposed to having
to haul it up they change the dynamics
whiteweasel gamey asks if we ever
received force contact with another
sapiens species how do you think that
would impact our society and culture it
would depend on the species on if it
were very hostile one it might impact us
literally if they're very friendly we
know we might still suffer some negative
effects and some very positive effects
but culture has changed a lot let me
know that with other cultures as we know
and I don't think an alien species would
happy less than their normal yeah but I
don't think it's gonna cause us to go
nutso insane or get wiped out you know
like we heard they'll have thought about
the kind of impact I have on us and you
know humans are built for adaptability
it's all biggest strength from from the
plant that's been breeding things for
adaptability for four million years we
are the most adaptable nor thinking and
what's scary or new today is old news a
week later so there would certainly be
an impact and a permanent impact here
that's going to rearrange how you look
at the universe under way but I think
it'd be all that shocking or traumatic
go for about three or four more
questions or a couple more questions
chance Claiborne asked what happens when
a black hole radiates so much that lose
its mass to sustain a singularity that
ceases to exist
um it's never going to decompress there
like that though it will kind of seem
like it when it flares out we will talk
about that more a couple weeks over
weaponizing black holes
tardigrade asks do you think a network
of railguns all over the source solar
system would be a practical method of
transporting goods sure
so what light sales if you let's you not
only speed and stuff up but slow it down
would be a good approach for that
and just in general things like that
it's the ability to add that energy
without having used to the store
momentum once you subtract it so that
you get that energy back you know by
catching it basically that would make it
a lot better being a new fast transport
around and which is what we kind of
ideally want otherwise these things take
years last question we do see
jean-sebastien ask can insects like
flies or ants get onboard a ship and
become space pests yeah oh yeah I don't
think we've had that problem with a
space station that I recall that we do
get biological contamination there but
actually that's one things we're talking
about in space whales and bioship so
I'll mostly bypass that one but you
would tend to expect almost any ship
that been so us for a long time which
means any interstellar colony ship or
any space freighter in general to start
developing it's a little ecology on
board just out the detritus unless
you're doing something active to prevent
that which you could probably do all
right let's go with a quick schedule
real quick before we take off for the
day as a reminder we do have that
discord session that will start up about
10 minutes after we finish up here
they'll go ahead and join in there as
soon as you want there's a link that in
the video description below and please
do a map return on push-to-talk episodes
we got coming up next week is going to
be space planes which we kind of fun
colonize included after that for us one
for June then weaponizing black holes
then Clark Tech's superpowers and then
kind of a follow-up to space planes with
Upward Bound beaming technology and that
is not not interstellar spaceship so
interplanetary space ships we'll be
talking about how to use beam power
sources to to move things out of our
atmosphere so it's kind of an extension
on space planes and then we've got an
episode for July 4th on synthetic meats
and then space tourism then void ecology
space waivers and bioships and then
we'll close July out with invasive
aliens and we will go ahead and close
out here for the day if you only checked
out the paperclip Maximizer on nebula
give that one a try that's linked below
too and if you were in the Pittsburgh
area for the Forster week of June feel
free to soon by the
maybe Science Center I haven't been
there in years but it's a great place
I'm looking forward to talking there and
we will see you on Thursday
or you can come and join us on discord
in which case we'll see you in about 10
minutes
