I think we're actually live at the
moment so there we are
okay assume here we can see me please
hit something in the chat box real quick
I don't know who actually live yet or
not
I'm going to assume based on all the
comments going that we all actually live
somebody just so I can see you so this
is our second end of the month
livestream with the appropriate one
minute of random technical glitches at
the get-go so we'll go ahead and get
started with questions in just a moment
here but just a bit of a highlights if
you haven't always seen it this week's
episode on the environments of space
habitat so to come out and next week we
will be walking with the Sens Research
Foundation to do an episode on the
science of Aging which will come out
Thursday at the usual time and I
actually have some folks who are helping
me out with questions this time because
last time I got way far ahead but I
don't actually see those posted yet so
go ahead and start with the questions
and when those still coming in we'll get
started with answering them in the
meantime if you haven't already cought
the interview that we did it with I
should say Paul one of the interview
that we did with John Michael Gautier
that is live and you can find a link to
it on the previous episode environment
of space habitats video description I
don't know for sure when he's doing part
two of that but we'll mention it with a
kind comes out and it's a fourth
question hey Isaac how do Lagrange
points walk if a planet has multiple
moons that's actually a bit of a tricky
one because typically speaking you're
going to have one dominant moon that's
going to put two of the others out I
think that they have tried to walk them
out for the Jovian system for instance
but typically you start getting things
synchronized in various orbits so you
get very temporary Lagrange points that
moved around
obviously the solar one's can actually
fluctuate a bit too because you've got
the ones that the planet has with the
Sun then are still being affected by the
entire planetary system so for instance
we had a bunch of them all the moons
line up on one side of Planet it can
move with lagron
2 & 3 points all very easily it's one
second please
question do you know of su skin's EEO
equal APL theory the idea of
entanglement that is to link two
particles via wormhole I familiar with
the basic theory there's not really too
much evidence yet to indicate that might
be the case or not it's nice it doesn't
break in the FTL things if you're
wondering if there's some way we can use
that for FTL no it just sends that one
data point is a war that something is up
or down so there's not really any FTL
options there how we actually go about
proving that is kind of tricky
I believe that all speeding sample
what's called a naked singularity which
is when the event horizon would actually
be too small to encompass the entire
object next question what is your
favorite space related feature length
film hmm Spacely XO spots a blade one oh
I suppose dune the David Lynch motion
might count after that those are two my
favorite movies growing up I was really
fond of sunshine came out in 2007 and
sunshine they're trying to restock the
Sun something's gone wrong
they've this big payload to take in they
owe and it's a very good movie except
the last thought of it or so it seems
like they were trying to make a bit of a
whole movie instead of just sci-fi and I
don't think that worked quite as well
but it might have been one of those
cases were they worried about coming out
to cerebro if they didn't include some
action question are you going to make a
space company I can't see myself doing
that anytime soon will get me involved
in something like that and it's really
not entrepreneur you know I like doing
the channel that's pretty much as simple
as that
this is fun running a business I mean
the channel itself is a business so I
suppose that counts but running a
business not so much
I wouldn't wanna I mean it's nice to get
involved in those projects but not to
have to devote yourself entirely to them
and with anything like that it's gonna
eat up all your free time and yes Larry
I'd agree to do
your book is a good one - its mother's
ones got a full featural cast so you get
to enjoy many different roles question
from Linnaean Chen what you think of
depth psychology I actually don't know
what that is
hi Isaac what would happen to an orbital
habitat near the speed of light and I
think we presumably be talking about
something like a ring what if it was a
larger one that was spinning around so
fast there was a relativistic speeds I
don't think you'd actually have any real
problem with that you just have
everybody on the surface having about
the same actual time dilation so they
would actually see a lot of blue shift
for me this ugly red shift anything
coming in light wise but other than that
they'd just be going a little bit slower
all right next question we've got could
hypothetical extra dimensions be of any
practical use to us
I was thinking of hamlisch space if
you're familiar with the old Looney
Tunes cartoons they they pull the hammer
out of nowhere and then whack someone
that I got to be called a hammer space
you'd pop if you familiar with it from
that totus for Doctor Who or whether
it's a bigger on the inside than the
outside if you can find some way to do
that that would be incredibly helpful as
to other things I just an example if you
could move stuff in three dimensions and
the four dimensions will quick you might
expect gravity be a lot stronger they'll
because might be a whole cubed force so
you might be able to do fusion easier
for instance the physical laws would be
very different assuming they were even
pay all those than ones we have here I
have to assume you'd have some way that
could be useful if you could actually
make use of it
clay Behrman asks if a spacecraft could
travel at the light speed or fast or
what would the gravitational effects be
of traveling into a black hole basically
would spaghettification still a core as
you're approaching uni solar mass black
hole I mean specifically ones in that
area you have a tidal force that's so
strong that it's going to rip you to
pieces before you get to the to the
event horizon not all black holes have
that the smaller ones aren't strong
enough to
we could conceive and make artificial
ones they'd be too small to absorb that
kind of force on someone and they're
really big galactic central one so too
big for them to have the tidal forces
that rip you apart for you at the event
horizon you'd still be subject to that
though unless you you're unless your
ship drives and somebody played with
gravity which would not be too
surprising if it was an FTL device I
would think
hydrogen cyanide asks when do you think
we would get fat when do you think we
finally get fusion power and fusion
based rocket engines you know the old
joke with fusion is that it's the
technology of 20 years from now and
always will be I think that it's getting
a lot closer but you know I think if we
say 20 years from now right now that
might actually be true I should point
out of course that we already do have a
fusion we've had that since we invented
the h-bomb and they've all ship drives
like the align or the Daedalus design
that do actually make use of that and so
those would be fusion drive ships
post-new kilo has to win we'd actually
get some nice compact fusion drive you
know your guess at this point is as good
as mine the research on that has been
pretty impressive both with Taco Max or
the other variations but who knows
question two all Kenner Chi accelerates
galaxies why does it not run out and
does dark energy threaten the law of
conservation I assume in the law of
conservation of energy and no doesn't
threaten it at all it just completely
kills it for that context if you get
into general relativity even before we
knew about dark energy you already have
an issue where basically the law of
conservation of energy was I don't want
to say thrown out but limited in terms
of the scope a little bit a Cosmo just
could probably explain this but a little
bit better but dark energy does violate
conservation of energy locally but it's
really spread out over time and space so
there's no practical way to take
advantage of it that anyone's gonna
think of it's not the conservation of
energy is wrong it's same as Newtonian
mechanics isn't wrong you know we've
just cause me a special relativity it
just has to be extended to those kind of
math and is a lot of math where they get
into that so we'll skip that for today
but conservation of energy
kind of same with entropy just cuz you
find one kind of specialized case of
violation doesn't make it wrong for
instance some if we're assuming the Big
Bang created all that energy in space
out of no way although times a little
bit of an if you think they are you'd
have at least one violation of both
entropy and conservation of energy right
they are doesn't mean you can make a
perpetual motion machine now question
hypothetically if you have no Q Bao
Drive and accidentally hits a hopefully
on implant uninhabited planet what would
happen the Alcubierre warp drive concept
has some problems it that they think
that when you're going to arrive and you
accelerated you basically blow up the
thing you're going to hit it is a lot of
energy involved in there so things 5se
with FTL that it's not just a question
of if you can do it it's whether or not
you'd ever have the energy to want to
pay for it and it is a lot of energy
even compared to relativistic ships but
you do have the problem with the
Alcubierre drivers you got a white hole
in front of you and a black hole behind
you so you can't really steal that can
confuse people sometimes what it is is
if I'm moving faster in light you need
light behind me let's try to catch up
has an effective event horizon because
it never can catch up so behind me is a
black hole for all practical purposes
but again I think everybody on the chair
knows I'm really not very optimistic
about he sort of FTL including the
Alcubierre Drive question what are the
applications of nanotechnology and how
far off is it we actually have an
episode that's going to talk about that
a little bit in mid-december the santa
claus machine which is one of the names
for that kind of technology and as to
win we'll have nanotechnology we kind of
already do loosely speaking we'd say the
biological scale even all the way down
to two viruses still qualified it's the
microscopic scale and that the nano
scale is really when you're starting to
get into ranges where atoms are part of
your basic resolution and building
blocks we do already have a lot of
techno
with carbon nanotubes and graphene and
so forth and actually do that little
Neos things like that when that will
actually turn into what people don't
think of us like the self-replicating
robots that is gonna depend probably on
when someone can actually make a
replicating machine of any type forced
and I tend to suspect you'd see
microscopic ones forced possibly using
biology as a baseline or even hybrid in
it and then kind of going down the scale
from there but we'll have to see and we
do talk a little bit more about the
problems with that in terms like the
directs those smiley debates in that
December episode it's me
do you have a favorite new space physics
series movie or the expanse would be but
I guess if doesn't really qualify as new
with three seasons already and all it's
um under its belt I was getting kind of
fond of lost in space after I we washed
a few times and the oil well which I'm
looking forward to a second season of
but that's that's probably about the
Xterra for right now there's a lot of
good sci-fi out they are a lot more than
when I was a kid when you basically were
lucky if you got one shell but as to
having a personal favor at the moment
I'd probably say the expanse
Evelyn asked do you play any space games
I am almost always five to ten years out
of date on video games I got around to
playing Mass Effect only about two or
three years ago I have not played
stellaris yet well I actually I have
played I just only played for about
thirty minutes a couple of times and
didn't get too into it good game but I
didn't feel like going the various
layouts and consoles um as for the newer
ones that were coming out I mean I hear
about them a lot but I've not actually
played very many of them see question
can you tell something about cryonic
preservation for people that wants to do
mind opening mind uploading where the
technology comes I'm gonna interpret
that as could you use cryonics to
preserve your brain against a day when
they might be able to scan it to be able
to upload it into a computer yes
probably I mean the stuff that should be
damaged when you're freezing
assume you're doing it properly should
leave your neurons in good enough
condition that we'd be able to scan them
and see what their state was but we
really don't know how mind scanning is
gonna walk yet there's a lot of debate
on what you actually need to have as
your scan resolution to get what you
need out of there and we tend to think
you could probably do it with about 10
to the 16th horse by just modeling every
New Orleans behavior but they were other
arguments that say it's gonna take more
see the mind uploading episode for that
but a good example that would be at the
Baba Voss series I am Legion by Dennis
eat a log which I think was a book of
them no I'm sorry one of his other books
one book at a month we mentioned the
series on the channel though it's a
great wonder if that's actually puppy my
favorite new sci-fi series in terms of
books question from Xavier Cavanaugh for
heat removal in space is a possible
practical to channel waste heat to heat
sinks and use as a power source
probably not the problem with almost any
type of heat engine is that you need a
correspond hot respond to go by now with
the example like a mashie Oscar brain
each layer is getting successfully cool
so you can use the radiation given off
by the previous Leo to generate power
but there was a certain maximum number
of layers but that can really be
effective and more or less if you're
cutting by more than half or sorry less
than half the temperature the previous
layer you're not really getting much
gain from doing it that way it always
has to be cool or for heat engine
specifically they are usually other
limitations that while going to cause
problems after that though one second
okay
do you see potential in the Nova engine
project um I mean obviously yes it's a
good one to have going on it's just with
so many of these I am NOT a rocket
engineer at all so I don't really like
to say which ones are better or worse he
or we mostly just try to introduce you
to ones that people are less familiar
with I would say especially for anything
off earth itself that the area that we
want to be looking at using its atomic
markets in general again away from the
immediate area Voth just cuz they give
you that option for a lot of Delta V and
for an actual decent thrust in
combination with an ion drive or not
question from Andy which would you
perform and think would you forced are
calling out a planet or routine Space
Station and which back before probably
the rotating Space Station is the force
thing you have to do realistically if
you wait to go to I mean we can go to
the moon where the gravity is lower and
we don't really know how low gravity
affects people just Co gladly in normal
gravity we can go to the moon and if
people start having problems we can
bring them home it's a short trip even
Apollo only took three days and we could
do it faster if we wanted to when you
start talking about places like Mars
that's a very long trip with a very long
time on the ground to find out if low
gravity like mulch and gravity is bad
for some of the processes we need to do
there and you can do a space station in
orbit around Earth that's got low low
gravity and check it that way forced by
having a spin habitats that's a moon or
Martian gravity there's also you know
the spaceship that goes they are to Mars
anything like that let's try and do it
really small needs to have that moat any
environment and that that sustainable
recycling in again English doing it very
small you kind of want to do all the
stuff you'd be doing on board a smaller
space station forced and that is the
majority of your trip you are spending
more time getting there and back then
you're spending on the ground without in
which a method of getting there so you
are more modeling what's happy on board
a space station is
ship in this case then you all what's
happening down on malls so it does make
sense in my mind to do a Space Station
forest plus it you know unless you just
want to go to mall is to plant a flag I
really feel like you need to have a
space infrastructure set up forced we'll
talk about that more in a couple weeks
for Battle of the Moon question from
 would a dog energy engine be
possible and could it go fast and light
because dog energy allows universe to
expand and increasing right
dalkong dark energy does not allow you
to do FTL at all it's just creating new
space in the middle of things so there's
no FTL option implied by that this does
not mean you couldn't actually create
something that ran on dark energy and of
course if you can figure out what it's
doing where it is adding space if you
could figure out some way to do to a
force to cancel a space out in front of
you then that is kinda like the warp
drive warp drive where you're you know
compressing space in front of you and
putting it behind you and that actually
is one of the examples of FTL that
cheats and lets you actually do it
without actually breaking any rules as
to a dog in dark energy engine that
actually created a power it like I said
it probably violates in conservation of
algae at least from certain perspectives
so you should theoretically be able to
tap it for energy but how we will go
about doing that is very hard to say
question is graphene or graphene oxide
mountain or plastic toxic in our body
not that I'm aware of but I don't
believe anyone's actually pleased enough
that you had to be able to do launch to
you know tests and and ask are you
really a CIA agent no actually I've
worked with them in the past and Iraq
though they all apply fellows question
what would happen if negative mass ie
now qu Bao dr not auntie meadow met a
black hole would the singularity lose
mass could you kill a black hole again
it's so much depends on if we actually
have negative mass what it is but that's
how Hawking radiation works is is you've
got two particles appearing one negative
mass one positive mass at the event
horizon and the negative one falls down
as it will and decreases the mass of the
black hole at least that's one way to
interpret it virtual particles all if he
took all real so if you had a big chunk
of negative mass and you ran it into a
black hole yes that should decrease its
mass typically these ships are assumed
to have a net positive mass to know for
wormholes so I don't know that you could
separate that negative mass off and
throw it in there but yes in theory at
least if you have a big chunk of
negative mass that is one way to kill a
black hole other than waiting patiently
for it to bond out question what can we
do as individuals to push pass to push
the question of colonizing a solar
system in terms of talking to
governments or Congress I think I mean
obviously if you live in one of the
districts where the congressman sits on
on the Space Committee you know sending
them letters as probably most effective
but you just advocate for it try to
explain its value to people try to build
up enthusiasm for Congress in general
was mostly pro science in space so there
because concern is are they throwing
this money down a hole because a billion
dollars here they are starts to add up
and there is a law flaw you can do with
it and if we invest in really big
projects the boy is that people will not
see a value coming out of that and
object
question do you think any biological
life capable of traveling through space
without spaceships could evolve I was
thinking the tyranids from 40k or the
bugs from starship troop was not the
bookstall ship sure what was the movie
star shaped ripples that sort of thing
or like Moira from false cape that would
be an example when it'd be a little bit
more realistic where it was an organic
or effect of the organic ship that have
been engineered for space that is
something that we'd like to look at
probably next year will finally give out
of doing that because we keep putting
that episode off but I don't think
anything would naturally evolve they are
you should be able to make something
that could live there but it's just not
a good setup in most places for anything
to actually you know no atmosphere or no
liquids very hard to evolve there and
again I wouldn't count if it was inside
a comment any more than we're counting
when it's on a planet question how
realistic is a generation ship around
three kilometers long and half a
kilometer wide with a population of 1
billion hmm it's that last one with the
population of 1 billion that's a little
tricky that's smaller than most only
Ocilla knows and we usually volunteer
Sonos having a population around a
million tops so trying to cram a billion
people in there that will natural people
with you know that one running on
electricity that would be very difficult
I don't think you could do a billion
inside one of that size you could build
one that was wide one long goal like a
McKendree cylinder that could
conceivably do it but I don't see
fitting a billion people on board one
not for that size you in multiple layers
you stuck in that heat losses you you
can't give another heat fast enough so
mmm
and I don't see one that that size you
know to handle million people question
do you still walk was a physicist if so
what is the focus of your research now
and do I have any advice for forestry or
physics students I do not actively walk
inside a fjord and
and since I left to join the army I had
kind of thought at the time I'd probably
go back a lot of people stay in the
military and and continue in the field
too in fact my internship with the Air
Force way back in the day was with a lot
of corners and majors who wore PhDs and
physics or engineering and they are
active in academia - I can't see myself
actually ever going back into academia I
guess you could stretch a point and
argue that I still walk in the field now
by doing stuff like this but yeah it's I
have no desire to go into active
research again I get bored of projects
too fast and while I love teaching the
idea of having 30 students in a room
again most of whom do not want to be
there versus having an audience of have
no idea I mean people are watching right
now but more than 30 I'm sure who
actually want to be here I mean just in
general terms I like what I do now more
than that as an option as to advice to
force geophysics students actually most
forestry or physics students are busy
taking various calculus classes and
maybe the University Physics one or two
course so they don't need too much
advice other than get in the habit of
doing your homework as you get into
second and third your coffee is the
greatest invention mankind has ever made
you will want that most people who go
into the field are used to doing their
homework and studying for maybe a few
minutes per week as opposed to the
length of the class by the time you
finish out your major you know if you're
valedictorian in it you'll be spending
twice as much time studying and doing
homework as you do in the class with him
so it's often a little bit difficult for
people to adjust to - having to really
walk for the grades question in space
there is an aspect of home for radiation
affecting living organisms in terms of
both functionality and longevity do you
think we need to address that from a
biotech point of view if we can we
should again that's actually kind of one
of these were talking about in next
week's episode because radiation and
cancer is such a big factor in human
mortality nowadays however space is a
radiation-soaked hellhole and the best
way to get around that is to do a lot of
shielding
on the other hand most of the tries that
actually lets you get from point A to
point B that are on the table
atomic you know a chore so you've gotten
radiation inside your ship too
you definitely want to be good with
dealing with radiation because it saves
you mass I'm shielding but in the end
you're still gonna use as much shielding
as possible question from capital H if
you're right and we do not break
Lightspeed will humanity use
relativistic effects to make one-way
trips especially if we extend our
lifespans
there is always an energy concern on
traveling fast it takes a ridiculous
amount of energy to get up to any speed
that's even a little bit relativistic
like unit 10% of life speed it's very
minimal I mean you'll be able to notice
in our clock being late but you wouldn't
really notice if you're talking someone
on the phone that much every little bit
you get faster even ignoring the usual
extra cost on things like the rocket
equation itself you have to start
increasing the energy using
exponentially I don't think anyone going
I think it's 80% is about when you hit a
50% time dilation and I think you have
to get up to around 90 s 95 I want to
say to get down to one tenth the speed
that's a lot of energy for what's not
seeing much trip time objectively just
saving you personal time and I think
most companies looking at the fuel on
that are gonna be thinking well why
don't we just put you into hibernation
or why don't you just enjoy the trip but
it's only if you start looking at trying
to do intergalactic travel you're gonna
want as much time dilation as you can
just uh if nothing else help resolve
your machinery event because they won't
be decaying as quickly a question have I
talked about quantum tunneling could it
be used as FTL I have talked about
quantum tunneling a little bit hmm
it can't be used to FTL non nimi away
quantum tunneling is a simplest form
it's kind of oh I guess but use the
normal analogy here you're standing at
the bottom of a hill and you have enough
energy to get halfway up the hill but
you can't quite catch the other side of
the hill with quantum tunneling there's
an uncertainty about how much energy you
actually have at that scale
so it looks like you only have enough
energy to get halfway up the hill but it
might turn out that you have because of
uncertainty just enough energy to get
across the other side of the hill and
that's kind of what quantum tunneling is
in a short form
there's no aspect of that that really
involves faster and light travel
although I suppose you could all use
spooky action at a distance there's an
uncertainty of your position energy and
that's what's allowing that effect
question do you believe do you believe
we live in a holographic universe it's
not a bad theory this is one of those
ones where it's like string theory or we
were saying yo equal eto for quantum
sueance the audio until I see
experimental evidence of these things I
I don't object to people theorizing
about that makes for good papers but I
really don't like to discuss them too
much outside a specific academic circle
because it can result a lot of hype
confusion you know there's there's again
there's nothing to prove that that might
be on the table per se same as with
multi voices versus Copenhagen
interpretation there's no proof one way
or another good theory but that's about
the extent of it question do you think
it's possible that we might cure aging
as a byproduct of adapting humans to
zero-g and radiation since astronauts
seem to age faster but there's arguments
that you actually owe 18 slow in some
ways in in low or zero gravity which we
actually discuss a bit and battle for
the moon but again we do have the
episode on the science of Aging coming
up this Thursday that's gonna talk a lot
about how this process walks and and one
of the biggest ones actually is treating
radiation and cancer what we think of as
life extension technology and what we
think of as medical cures for diseases
more or less overlap there there's
really not a stark contrast do you think
it is realistic to uplift an animal
species by breeding them and McKendry so
no and applying I really hate with this
window always moves on me and applying
selection pressures to cultivate
intelligence
kind of just like it's separate
questions because could you put a
species inside of McKendree cylinder is
that enough space again a McKendree
cylinder is kind of a very large
rotating habitat that's got about as
much internal area as a large continent
so that's only a good amount of space
for our species to grow up into unless
it's bigger than elephants
if you uplifted it could it live company
inside they're like sure but you know
questions you always have to keep in
mind when building a habitat like that
if you're trying to put them in a
primitive level to begin with and see
where they go you know where are they
getting their metals from how they are
doing astronomy when they were inside
something like that some question
I am extremely interested in both
astrophysics and artificial intelligence
what would you suggest to study in
college is studying both a good idea you
know there's really not that much
overlap between astrophysics and auto
official intelligence besides our
interest in it folks tend to be
interesting the one tend to be
interesting the other von Neumann probes
would be obviously one of the things you
most be looking at with artificial
intelligence and astrophysics if you
have to pick which one to study or I
mean could you study both yeah you could
um a lot of mathematician a lot of
physicists have a a mine or a dual major
in math I mean you should have take one
extra course to get your undergraduate
in math if you're doing physics a lot of
mathematicians have a minor or major in
computer science I don't see any reason
why you can do all three wouldn't really
involve that many more classes though
you probably have enough accumulated
credit hours by the time you finish
those through you have to have a
master's and one of them and it usually
is building for that one high or degree
forced unless it's almost a freebie but
then which is like for math is a dual
minor because again degree is really
seeing much of threshold is for how much
you can study through after you done
with that you know how to lawn you can
learn anything you want if you're doing
it right you will get to the point where
you can read a textbook almost like it's
a novel and you can just learn the
subject more on your own
I mean question can ability to build
space habitats be considered a human
evolutionary trait building spoon I'm
kind of gonna on top of that as can we
think of humanity as kinda the Earth's
evolutionary mechanism for spreading out
to other ecosystems is a thought on that
is life in general wants to explain oh
go to additional niches presumably start
off near a thermal vent or tidal pool
and slowly worked its way out to
increasingly bizarre and Afton extreme
environments and you could think of
intelligence and technology I suppose as
an evolutionary mechanism for spreading
to space environments or to other worlds
but I mean that's that's all you'll be
semantic and certainly subjective but
it's only small poetic is the
digitalization of consciousness feasible
in the next 50 years probably not in
terms of actually being able to do it
not because it's necessary really huge
advance technologically as I you know
you have to do sequential experiments
you think about again something like
fusion people always wonder why it takes
us so long and a big part of that is
every time you want to learn something
new about it we often have to build a
brand new facility that takes a decade
to get funding a decade to construct and
five or six years to get that first
elementary data out of it and you know
that whole 20-year period when you're
doing that not much else is getting done
on that front you can still do some
theory and a little bit of
experimentation but you have to wait and
I think we're gonna find that's the case
with human conscious lot too because
every time we go do a new step on that
there was going to be a regulatory
ethical just you know barrier that says
show us this is safe to do to people
show us that this is not going to create
a crazy half conscious mind so I think
there will be a lot of steps in the
middle that people have to slowly meet
before they'll be allowed to proceed to
the next one okay and let's see okay we
are going to take a quick break see if
this hopefully walks so while we
taking a quick break which incidentally
is a great chance to grab a drink in a
snack as I am Zumba doing myself I want
to take a quick moment to give a shout
out to a new book by our friends over at
Universe Today Frazier sent me an
advance copy of it a few weeks back and
it came out this week the Universe Today
ultimate guide to viewing the cosmos
everything you need to know to become an
amateur astronomer by David Dickinson
and facial Kane and it's a great primer
on getting into amateur astronomy I
think I've mentioned it in passing
before that way back when I was in grad
school at Kent State
I got tasked with running else cause
Observatory for some of our public
viewings and I'd imagine we have a lot
of folks here who all amateur
astronomers or we have been thinking
about getting into it if you all I've
grabbed a copy it covers everything from
how to pick the right telescopes to how
to use it man even how to do photography
with it if you haven't seen them before
you can also check out our collaboration
episodes with Frasier on colonizing the
solar system and kanischev to
engineering and if you're in a shopping
mood you can also swing by signal and
grab yourself an SFI a t-shirt or mug
and I'll include a link in the episode
description lastly while we'll try to
get to as many questions today as
possible if you don't get yours and so
today you can always join our Facebook
already groups where I'm often around
answer questions as well as old discord
so for where we tend to have a live
voice chat on Sunday afternoons a couple
times a month those will also be linked
in the episode scription we'll be back
in just a moment
[Music]
[Music]
okay and we all back
I did notice somebody mentioned the
other valium on the break there was a
little outside
normally I normalized the valium on the
videos to negative four decibels and
that makes my voice a little bit loud or
as compressed too so I'll be careful
that for next time
when I need to take a break to not smoke
a cigarette that question if you spin a
huge amount of mass will it create and
synthetic go-go's fear and is it so and
can you use this as a warp drive because
it will walk time there's a question
that often comes up when you're talking
about something like a neutron star
which is really close to me at the edge
of a black hole you know level of
density if I accelerate that up they are
will it turn into a black hole and this
one that's gonna begin to the rest mass
issue rest mass we usually only use rest
mass your mass technically increase
under relativity but we usually treat
that as not increasing the neutron star
itself is not collapsing into a black
hole from the acceleration because it's
only it's a it's it's localized from a
state that matters
alternatively you would actually see an
event horizon if you pushed away from
you fast enough because it's from that
shifting away any object that's going
fast enough can eventually have an event
horizon allowed to you where you're not
seeing it because just Iveta lateral
arrow and to it effectively disappears
over the cosmological event horizon for
instance if it's got a lot of gravity to
its blue shift it slightly red shifting
that lies an escape from it and that
would add up to that concert an event
horizon see no see pineapple asks do you
think it would be possible to have a
mine or partially self-sustaining Connie
on the moon by 2035 it depends on what
you mean by self-sustaining I think we
could have a base on the moon
potentially even in this upcoming decade
though probably not 2035 seems a little
early Frank a serious base that was
actually self-sustaining however it all
depends on the technology that's funny
you do that if tomorrow somebody creates
a clanking self-replicate Oh
or design for a very simple pal
satellite beaming system like we
discussed in power satellites that might
be all you need is that push is one of
those things mail a lot of these time
estimates happy with kind of a guess as
to which technologies are gonna roll out
and they're so mean and the effect
launch cast that use kind of a senior
sort of a lose its like guessing the
stock market way in advance you see an
upward trend and from that you're
extrapolating twenty thirty years
it'swell means I don't like doing the
twenty thirty year or type estimates how
far advanced is gonna be besides fact
it's almost always wrong well you can
say is if we get X technology then we
will have this say ten years late oaks
about how long each taste do prototyping
and funding creators clanking
self-replicate or or get launch costs
down to hundreds of dollars per kilogram
and I think you see a moon base within
ten years of that how has my opinion on
blockchain technology evolves as the
Crypt of show and see and blockchain
video from two years ago to be honest
not that much I've a certain gavage
against cryptocurrency because a show
like this relies very heavily on
graphics that means everything we do
relies on graphic cards which are
insanely expensive right now because of
cryptocurrency
blockchain is evolving to be something
very useful cryptocurrency the the same
basic arguments are involved it's deemed
to be it's not a fringe technology
although I think cryptocurrency is
something here to stay I don't know how
big Venetia it's gonna have but it's not
a fad technology it may grow into
something much bigger it may shrink down
to something smaller than it is right
now I do think it's here to stay though
question about science and politics how
can we push the international community
to walk together to build an orbital
ring at the moment I don't think that
you could and orbital ring is one of
those things you build when you already
have a very large space infrastructural
there's not that many advantages to
doing them before that just because it's
like building a railroad track between
New York and San Francisco that's
profitable right now it would have been
profitable in 1802 and you have to wait
until there's a lot of
infrastructural and and need before it
something like that's really justified
there's something a little bit more
limited like a LOF strim loop maybe soon
or mm-hmm I think that mmm
is gonna be an issue that when you ever
start looking at things like space
elevators or oval rings or even large
thumb loops there's a big light of wake
and so on
you know you'd softly gonna be over
other people's taro ties and they're not
just all be over real quick either and
so I think they're gonna want permission
or access and you're gonna have to
negotiate with them on stuff like that
plus it's always nice of you to have
more more resources more brainpower
available and if you can get other
countries to toss in on something like
that it's it's only going to speed
things up quite a lot so but I think
that's one of those things that will
solve organically with time same as the
Space Treaty the aerospace tree that
probably needs to be revised at some
point that we'll see how that goes
a lot of times we don't even know what
needs to be changed on treaties like
that until we get closer to the corn
actual problems and context that they're
in what is the subject in physics that
you struggled the most to master or
understand either now in college
electrodynamics Oh my professor for that
had told me that the answer when we saw
the class off is you're always going to
be zero or not zero which is often that
you know in me cases of you doing that
true magnetism the answer is actually
zero I think nullifies our I do not like
lecture magnetic so I mean so obviously
it's an important fuel but I never feel
as intuitively comfortable with it as I
do something like classical mechanics so
relativity and electrodynamics can
obviously be a bit well so I
electromagnetic so undergrad
electrodynamics for for grad school I
know a lot of folks have problems with
quantum that one didn't bother me as
much that's a whole course to solar
state can be honed to you tend to have
to ingest your intuition a lot on these
things but once you learn them it seems
strange that they will hold in the past
and it's hard for me to remember which
ones I had more problems with or less
problems with background force learning
them
question would you be willing to do an
episode on the future of spacesuits
especially as a second skin something
you could weigh are doing long flights I
would be willing to if they were the
visual assets available for it it's it's
actually a fascinating topic
I wouldn't mind covering it does maybe
battle all more - although we're still
thinking about you know power suits I
start why do you went on mecha and
robots we talked about how those will be
practical that always gets tempting to a
visit that though a lot of times
episodes if there's not enough visual
assets there I don't really like to do
episodes on them because it feels like
it's just me talking a lot of these
ideas works so much better if you can
actually see them but there is a lot of
material on space suits and their
relevance and you know don't always
think of it as a necessary space suit
you know you get something like a second
skin something that's as comfortable
whereas just your normal clothing that's
not as I just gonna be in space that
you'd use that you might use that on the
ground I mean I fully expect us to have
an increasing amount of electronics and
nanotechnology built into our clothing
as time goes on you know you have to
have a certain length of antenna to get
reception how much easier would it be if
you antenna was built into your clothing
and with some of these things where do
you get climate-controlled clothing you
know things that was cycle it and
recycle moisture from your body for
instance something with solar panel was
integrated into it you know kinda like a
chainmail he would that could charge all
your apps what appliances will create a
very small Wi-Fi field or electric field
that you could charge those things off
of so you know the the technology of
spacesuits and clothing would be a fun
topic I think to a couple at some point
but we'll see how that goes
Isaac what is your opinion on weak
values in quantum mechanics can it make
FTL communications possible with quantum
entanglement I just do not see a
scenario for quantum entanglement
allowing faster and light communication
of any kind you know some people can
debate otherwise but I've never seen the
arguments really backed up with anything
I would say is solid experimental data
or something like that is always the key
if somebody can show me an experiment
where they have sent one single bit of
data
to another location faster and light I
will change my opinion magnets we are
getting a lot better with quantum
entanglement that obviously in there has
an effect on quantum computing to
question if you would or could decide
somewhere in the universe to be
teleported to which location would you
choose
you know I'll try think of a place you
could actually be teleported to besides
earth that wouldn't instantly kill you
if you were sent there I would not mind
I mean if I had to pick a place I could
be teleport to and be alive and make a
return trip I would really like to be on
the other side of the galaxy on the
other side of the zone of avoidance so
we could take some data of the other
bits that were missing there's a big
chunk of our sky which includes an awful
lot of other galaxies because I listen
of all galaxies in the way there was a
lot of all galaxies we can't see because
the disk and the and the caught galaxies
in the way and there's a lot of very
interesting things like the Great
Attractor that all stuck behind there so
that would be a good place to get some
data and of course failing that teleport
me tomorrow so I can plant a flag and
give my name and the Guinness and all
that question why don't we make the Sun
last longer by adding hydrogen helium if
you actually just added hydrogen to the
Sun you would not lengthen its life
you'd actually short it down if you all
if you are pulling helium and other
things out of the Sun and we're placing
that with hydrogen that would extend its
lifespan because it doesn't really run
out of hydrogen though though it can
after a line of peer time with like red
dwarfs for instance it just starts
getting choked with with helium and and
the bigger ones they get choked with
Kalb in you know eventually even I or in
detonate that is a way to extend stole a
life time though we did talk about that
and stahl Athena and Dino are the
civilization of the unit I'm episode 3
regarding weapons in space stations and
craft
do you believe we will continue using
projectile based firearms or would that
be too dangerous in that scenario
whenever you're talking about firing off
weapons inside of a space ship your
biggest problem is that you're worried
about putting a hole through the wall
and you say so we need to use somewhere
and that doesn't put horse through the
whole of the ship the problem is that
unless the whole of your ship is thicker
than people's body amo there's no point
having weapons issue with them anyway
someone's will be coming in in a
spacesuit they're gonna be wearing all
more if that almost sticker than the
ship in your Hall you can't use a weapon
on them that isn't going to penetrate
your whole because you won't be able to
penetrate their body or more so I think
you would always have fairly thick hose
on on ships that wore expecting to have
hostility and then if you just talk
about somebody trying to maintain
Authority or chain of command on board a
spaceship you use a normal pistol I
let's say you you shoot them and you put
a hole through the wall it's a small
hole you know you can go and probably
you think'll they just slap something to
operatin see or oval leaks in spaceships
of that size are not a big deal except
for when you have them behind some piece
of equipment so you can't see them out
in the suck nail in if it's just a hole
in the wall you walk over or slap
something on top and then go seal it
question if we were going to live
forever what would be your performed
mechanism mind upload medical technology
that makes your physical body
indefinitely lasting something else
personally my idea would be somebody
that just extended my own life properly
with a little bit of augmentation that
allowed it to be communicated some
storage space digitally so that if
something did happen to my body that was
beyond retrieval they could boot up a
copy of me and I would regard that as a
copy but that copy would still be able
to do continuity you know could still go
to my friend's birthday still consult
them do you could still run the channel
that kind of thing
it might not be me but it's a pretty
good successful question one moment we
scroll up how do you think galactic
trade would walk consuming the
logistical problems with trade or
exchange of goods which would it be even
worth trying to colonize plants which
are not completely self-sustaining
they're all things you can trade between
solar systems it's horrible and it would
be more of a niche I think but you can
even send raw metal to them you know if
you're doing a Dyson Sphere you are a
Dyson swarm you do have enough materials
in your own source and do that but you
still might want more
materials and it probably is - energy
cheap or to send them slowly because
it's a long construction project so you
don't need to be fast to even said you
know things like rocks to another solar
system as raw material and then of
course you always got your oddball Goods
you know it's always gonna be someone
who's going to pay for a rock from that
other solar system or the first minting
of their local coins or the fourth
edition of some comic book you know how
much would somebody pay for a glass of
magelia north at Manos is whether or not
that wine was cheaper to ship there than
they're willing to pay and when you're
doing with something as big as a Dyson
swarm you almost certainly gonna have
enough people and enough post-scarcity
environment for some year to afford to
buy those that are outrageous prices but
then of course you still have your one
big one which is data and you know
that's still a trade thing and you would
always necessarily send that with lasers
either assumption is you transmit it on
a tight beams of that system there are
limitations to how fast you can send
data and there'll be a lot of things
that might just be so large but not only
time relevant that you might actually
send them on a hard drive you know you
don't really need to get the movies for
another solar system you're faster and
they might be gigantic high-resolution
things of quadrillions of gigabytes and
so that might be something you send on a
hard drive to
question will you ever do a more
in-depth discussion on gravity both
spinning irregular and we do talk about
spin gravity a lot I tend to feel like I
repeat myself I mean every time we do an
episode on loading habitats I'm worried
I'm boring the heck out of people by
discussing the same point over again but
we try to keep the episodes in totally
contained when we do the flat earth SEPA
sowed mega-structure was flat oats we're
not talking about the Flat Earth theory
that episode which I believe is the
force one dissemble we will talk a
little bit about some of the stranger
aspects of gravity when it's not a
spherical format and beyond that though
I'm not too sure there's that much to
discuss I am never going to do a general
relativity episode on this channel we
can talk special relativity because you
knew that without which well before
general to me there's just too much for
math background and there's there's many
good courses that explain that topic to
folks but nothing we could do in I
thought you made an episode question do
you think the Hyperloop will be
successful for mass transit they won't
you know this is a thing the Hyperloop
there are actually several Hyperloop
projects going on they're not all the
same you have two big cost issues with
that forces right of way if you want to
build a tunnel overland or even onto
land you have to secure all that line of
way and you can go back to looking at
the history of the railroads find out
how ho that was in a country where
moesel hand was still undeveloped as to
the other aspect of that is there's a
cost when you're trying to make a big
tube it has a crush pressure that you
know a vacuum between one atmosphere is
not very large but you start making
these pipes you get this expanding extra
weight that you have to deal with and
that's manageable but your crowds very
thick pipes and it also requires a lot
of joints to connect everything that
which gets kind of expensive and I mean
if there's enough demand for it yes if
the price to manufacture those gets
cheaper yes if you get a material that
handles that better yes
as is right now maybe you'd have to ask
an economist I know I'm not in a
position to say yes or no I think that
there was a definite place for vacuum
trains along the lines of Hyperloop you
know a future but that assumes much
cheaper manufacturer much cheaper
tunnel-boring for instance question do
you think antimatter propulsion might
become a reality in this century
probably not until somebody finds a way
to actually produce and store reasonably
safely large quantities fancy meadow and
we don't we don't have a mechanism for
that right now it's not gonna be a very
good Drive it's only it's it's the ideal
ship fuel there's no get around that but
it is mmm you know I think we spend
about 10 million times as much energy to
make it right now and the whole point
the stuff is that's really nice in terms
of its you know net energy that produces
maybe down the road but it's me it's
just seems like so much easy to do
something I guess delays or you know if
you didn't have something like fusion on
hand and I think that's probably gonna
be the focus but obviously is something
we're gonna keep researching if someone
comes up the good way of storing it and
producing it then absolutely yes I think
people would definitely use that for
interstellar travel or even
interplanetary I don't think anyone ever
let you actually use it for rocket ship
engines on the surface they all thought
oh maybe maybe not if it was small
quantities question
I've read about using voting rings of
metal to generate gravitational fields
that can accelerate spaceships to high
speeds will you becoming us in future
videos I'm actually not familiar with
that idea
I'm not sure how that would walk with
conventional Matt or maybe with
something exotic like negative matter
but I'll look into it and if it sounds
like that we can do we'll take a peek at
it question are you worried about
Kessler syndrome making us plan a lot no
it's a big concern there's something we
have to deal with
yes we've stopped the only Apollo
infrastructure in space but it is
manageable and most of situations where
you'd actually have enough stuff in
space to have to start worrying about
that
applies that you've got enough
ground-based launch infrastructure be
able to manage it that is actually
concern if you're doing interplanetary
warfare if you're the invading fleets
you really have to worry about all the
debris that's being put up and you start
blowing stuff up and if you're the
ground-based one you have to worry about
a raid that set just to set off Kessler
syndrome basically your mattress will be
keen buying and gave you a planet
Kessler syndrome that horse could you
blew up all that orbital infrastructure
but they're kind of stuck for quite some
time until they clear that where they
can't do much in the house but we did
discuss in was it the space
infrastructure episode and Upward Bound
some of the ways you can go about
clearing that and they should be pretty
feasible I really don't expect that to
be something that would ever keep us
planet bound it could just be a
temporary inconvenience question would
micro black holes be easier to make than
antimatter the that's it depends on what
technology you get the trick to making a
micro black hole the the thing you
really need to be able to do for that to
make it reasonable is to find some kind
of material that can actually reflect
gamma rays or act for lenses gamma rays
because you need to be able to use
something that short of a ray of light
to be able to produce one to produce a
kugelblitz black hole very reasonably
there i've seen some other methods that
were involved in you know basically it
employed in nuclear detonation a many of
them around they're kind of like how we
set off nuclear bombs the lowest place
we were have to see but which one's more
realistic well we've already made
antimatter so I'd have to say it's got
the it's got the head start in that
regard question what do you think of
compute what do you think of competing
other than using electronics I'm going
to see me something like a mechanical
computer that relies on basically
switches made out of something I call
the nanotubes that's got possibilities
in it you'd really have to ask computer
scientist about which one would be more
optimal but whatever you can actually
make smallest that can switch fastest
because that does matter if it takes too
long what to change state that becomes
an issue if you can do with you know
small ball if you can do it fast or or
if it can do it with less heat produced
then it becomes a better option although
there will always be a few cases for
streaming
it's what you might want to use a
mechanical computer and we've got about
five minutes left to go here I'll take
questions then we'll just do a quick
follow up on schedule how far away in
years do you think we often creating von
Neumann probes and do you think it would
be something that would be financially
ethically feasible that's actually in
the seeding stalls episode we'll finish
the year out with von Neumann probes in
their conventional sense I don't think
is something you'd ever really do just
because it's not very controlled or
useful on the surface of it for
colonization it represents so an amount
of difficulty ethically especially you
certainly variations that though they
were more controlled
yeah but the ideas of von Neumann probe
it's an unmanned space ship your palm is
if you've got an artificial intelligence
in there sufficient to be adapt or it's
not with the unmanned anymore there was
a person of some sort on board and
ethically that's that's a bit of an
issue that's and there's really no right
or wrong answer on that I think we did
talk about that one of recent episodes
is how ethical is it to make something
that was designed to be a probe for
instance that actually enjoyed that
process and you've app again that's an
ethics question I think you buddy can
really give you a forum answer on it's
and question you before teaching the
research I can do I guess that would be
akin to teaching research I guess I do
before teaching over research I actually
used to teach when I was doing in grad
school most of my students and I
complain about that to a lot of my
friends who actually to teach and they
they always tell me I should count my
blessings when you're teaching in grad
school usually are assigned to teach the
college physics one or two course which
is usually full of pre-med majors who
are doing their very last semester so
they're they oughta walk they get stuff
done they don't complain much and
they're usually fairly small to medicate
at that point that's not the ideal
student for someone who doesn't want to
be there and yet that bugged the heck
out of me you know my friends who teach
high school or things like that
afternoon really hates having to try to
get enthusiasm those students that I'm
sure would drive me insane
I like having an audience that enjoys
next week on this they evolve and tale
later lawn and so I couldn't even say
that necessary like teaching because
part of teaching is is by definition
teaching people who don't necessarily
want to learn the topic but research I
mean there's obviously a lot of research
anything you're doing like this uh
forget to do your research in advance
but the idea is spending years and years
on a single project I think if I mean
obviously if I got really into it it's
it's it's when people walking on their
doctorate they often get very into the
topic it does kind of become their life
and and so they have no problem staying
motivated about it man there might have
happened for me on the given topic
I did not like them when I was walking
on when I was in grad school and that
was a big factor on why I left maybe a
different topic I've enjoyed inside I
just enjoyed researching but then I did
not happen to enjoy that so maybe I
would have enjoyed other things question
what you do currently other than awesome
videos that's probably a good clothes
and a question to close out on for you
to schedule things since it is relevant
at the moment my day job so to speak
is the chairman of the board of
elections for my area of Ohio and we
election coming up in nine days which is
going to keep me very busy for the next
week or so and as Paul the reason why
we're not doing this on the last day of
the month but pick for the weekend plus
I didn't want you when the same time is
Halloween and we probably will keep the
last weekend for these and I know it's
just from my background I democracy is
very important to me um and voting just
in general is very important to me and
if you haven't voted the CEO and you are
able to vote assume you're in the United
States please divides too late to
register in most cases but please do go
vote for whoever it is even if you're
just going there to vote for a few
things and you know it's the most
worthless vote is the one you never cast
but so yeah that does tend to take up a
film on my free time right around
November and except in presidential
years in May so we'll be coming up on
that and I'll probably be very exhausted
for next week but don't worry the
episodes are all written a couple months
out so they'll all be coming out the
normal
and speaking of upcoming episodes we do
have coming up on the list the next
episode we say is the science of aging
which we're going to be walking with
sends our resource foundation with by
the way as a side note I often say the
Sens Research Foundation it is actually
since we saw sound ation know the but I
still use both back and forth a lot so
after that is reclaiming the desert
that's the earth 2.0 series I thought
episode and then we have the battle for
the moon which is all book of the month
autumn is by Andy wheel which is a fun
one
and in case you're wondering about that
that is well actually I'm not going to
spoil the episode we are looking at many
aspects of it not just military
conflicts on the moon but we do include
military conflicts on the moon then
we'll be giving to all we're toward the
generation ship series kind of the fifth
episode of that is going to be sleep or
ships which are technically not
generation ships but it seemed
appropriate to include it in the series
and that will be coming up on November
22nd and we do have a fifth episode for
November 5 Thursday's that month month
which is megastructures flat earths and
again that is not about the Flat Earth
theory and then of course as we move and
assemble we've got some great episodes
starting with a kicking kick story in
space industry where we're gonna ask
ourselves a lot of questions about what
could actually be the tipping point to
get us really into space in a big way
and you'll get to see all those episodes
before we get to see you again for our
third live stream I think we probably
will not be a guest on 4 November
although I might make some enquiries and
then of course the sample one would be
right there would be the very end of the
year so not sure what do one for
December but we will probably start
bringing guests on for these at some
point although I might test it was
probably somebody close to home who have
fun with who won't mind if I mess up and
glitch the electronics so speaking of
that thank you very much for joining me
today and hopefully we will be able to
incorporate some more fun visuals and
other things into these as time goes on
but we're still in novice phase at the
moment and I will see everybody on
Thursday
