good afternoon everyone and welcome to
the sfia monthly livestream q a
we'll get started in just a moment but
go ahead and start getting your
questions in the chat window so our
moderators can start relaying those to
me as soon as we start please try to
keep the questions concise and watch
your spelling and try to be polite to
others in the chat
we usually go for about an hour so you
probably want to grab a drink and a
snack though we'll take a break about
halfway through too with all that said
welcome and let's get started
hello everybody and welcome to another
sfia monthly live stream q a uh this is
isaac arthur being joined as usual by my
wife the lovely sarah lane fowler author
who will be asking us questions today uh
as you get queued up and ready to join
us for today go ahead and put your
questions in the chat box moderators
will find them reformat them when
possible and get us fed into them
roughly in the order they get asked so
with all that said let's go ahead and
get started yeah it looks like we've got
some questions coming in and the first
question we're going to do today is from
raven609 thank you for your super chat
raven
and they want to know what your thoughts
are about human powered flight in low
gravity particularly with peddled
propellers or wings strapped to arms
let's see
i think the idea of flapping your wings
so that uh that you can fly kind of like
the uh what uh what are the daedalus
dave yeah data is an icarus we actually
have the daedalus projects one of our
names for interstellar starship drive
we'll be discussing that for our first
episode of january
um
i don't really know if there's ever
going to be a circumstance with
something where the kind of mass that a
human has could fly with normal wings
that wasn't like microgravity or very
low gravity you could certainly do that
in a habitat but i don't think you could
really do that very well in a uh
in anything but a kind of a microgravity
not only like a low graviolic mole set
up the other is kind of have problems
with regular gravity oh yeah so
i guess the other thing is you also have
to push forward everything about flight
is is nurturing your inertia doesn't
change regardless of your gravity your
inertial mass has to still be pushed by
your arms which are
maybe not ideal for that not the kind of
flight speeds that you think about here
on earth you know like uh well how fast
we were going the about 100 knots 100
was that that's actually fairly slow you
think about but uh 150 miles an hour
still pretty fast we were up flying last
week my wife is busy working on a
pilot's license and uh just kind of did
a loop around the county it's
so much faster ashtabula where we live
at is the largest county in ohio
uh and uh we still toured the entire
thing in like an hour yeah i don't think
it was even that long actually to around
you know it's real
around but that's because we did almost
two loops but i mean it's a lot easier
to fly in lower gravity e but you still
have that fundamental thing which is
that it's all about the difference in
pressure between the top of the airfoil
wing and the bottom that's what's really
doing your lift and that's mostly about
the thickness the air and the pressure
but the lift you have is being
counteracted by your weight so half the
weight half the lift you know
all right so what's next well we have a
question here from alan crowley thank
you alan for your super chat and he well
actually it's a comment he says keep up
the good work on the show and beekeeping
thanks alan
my wife does most of beekeeping too so
um
let's see they are at the moment all
huddling in their frames and very cold
um let's see for those who uh because
it's very hard to get next to them
everybody watches cody's lives probably
seen him on doing his b stuff at times
and he has this one
uh kind of beast up that looks like a
trough and i think i want to build one
of those come come next year to keep
them in because it looks like it's
so much easier than trying to unstack
the boxes to check them but we'll see
how that goes
um anyway uh was there a question there
was that just a comment it was a comment
oh okay thank you for that comment
the first question here is going to be
from truth seeker do you think mars
colony should be independent or
controlled by earth-based colonies
um
i think that it would almost have to be
control from back here it needs a
certain amount of independence
especially when it's not got
communications you know you got that
20-minute cycle time on a message or
something in that zone depending on how
close or far away it is um that's not
really that bad when you talk about
email time that's that's you know more
than quick enough for sponsors
but it does mean that
you can't have anything going on that
requires them to talk to us in less than
a minute
and so that does require certain amount
of control but
not necessarily any more than you get
with well like with our local county
governments you know they don't call up
the state every day and need a live call
of the governor to figure out what's
going on and uh you know it's uh uh they
managed one thing pretty fun i should
say so and of course this stuff all
created the telephone too so you know
they it helps to have a certain amount
of independence to run things but you
don't really need it that much even for
a modern kind of governmental style not
for that 20 minute or in solar system
thing
um and the thing people trying to feed
is not sure county's got like a million
people in it it's really not all that
qualified to be its own nation state
until there's been things like
where's the appellate court would they
have a supreme court or do they have
multiple doctors of each specialty that
kind of thing
um ian
celine thank you he says what are your
thoughts on the new foundation series on
apple tv
you know i think i actually made a
comment on the thanksgiving episode that
it was okay to ask about that but i
haven't seen the wheel of time series
yet either i was saying feel free to ask
about dune awesome
uh
wheel of time a little disappoint but
i'm gonna try back and watch after a few
more episodes and foundation series
which
uh i didn't like the first episode i
loved the second and third episode and
then after that it's kind of weak but
you know again star trek the next
generation fourth season season one it
was crap it's still a great series you
have to get into the third season for us
any good um and honestly a lot of the
other star trek ones like ds9 and voyage
are great shows but they don't like
their feet underneath them until seasons
two or three
i am not happy with all the changes
in foundation but i do like what they're
doing with the emperor there it just
feels like it's a different story
cleon is almost a non-entity in all the
foundation novels except for the the
prey dude books way later um and uh and
he's dead by the time the foundation
starts up that particular crayon here's
an interesting character that they made
though that's almost using a different
tv show i don't mind that adaptation
because it's kind of cool but i'm not
too happy with all the other ones
because it seemed to be removing
almost the entire concept of actual
psycho history from the show in favor of
just putting math up on the screen and
say look math
but you're kind of a mathy kind of guy
well yeah that's how your real math it's
just stuff on the screen
distracting me yes
but yeah you know they are definitely
doing a lot more interesting ward
building there and uh there's some
some material that's good so i'm going
to give them at least two seasons before
i write them up but i'm a little
disappointed with them as well all right
our next question is from jeffrey w and
he says how far off are space labs 3d
printing in og
zero g sprinting that's actually well by
the way the dune movie because i was
going out awesome if i didn't always say
that love that i was a big fan of the
original too so it had to really get up
there for me it was like my second
favorite movie after blade runner
best sci-fi movie i've seen at least a
decade
um okay so printing zero g is actually a
little bit trickier than it sounds like
because everything we do right now is
based off the idea that stuff's coming
down
off a nozzle to drip into place
basically
so that's going to require a lot of
actual real calibration there though you
could potentially run it like a
centrifuge obviously that's an option
too but that might screw you up on some
things too that's the only real horror
to doing one up there we i believe we
took a 3d print out there and did some
stuff already with one but
it's not going to be too hard to
actually set up i think there in some
ways it should be easier for certain
projects but
mostly it's a practice thing within the
decade we should have all the bugs that
are specific to zero gravity worked out
okay uh jay lambert says could stars
hidden by advanced civilizations account
for dark matter
um this is actually a really popular
question because the idea is hey we are
putting a dyson sphere or dyson swarm
around a stall
um
and
uh maybe that's why we can't see them
and there's all this missing matter and
the problem is no because
first it would imply that at every age
of the universe right
for every place in the universe we can
see and for every part of the galaxy
they basically distribute the stars they
chose to dyson up
uh exactly how we would expect them to
have done dark matter
from even so early on that we wouldn't
expect any stars to exist yet for them
to dice it up so no it doesn't work
could they be like a percent of the
overall ah sure same as like
black holes that are smaller than we
expect to find but not quite the right
range there's a lot of things that could
contribute just a little bit to dark
matter and uh be mundane but none of
them are even in the zone to be able to
do what we find which is like a five to
one ratio
of matador to dark matter and um
the other thing to keep in mind is that
when you do dyson swarm up a star or do
almost the other kind of engineering
with a star you're not actually making
it dark you're just changing the
spectrum it comes out at it's kinda like
saying that you can't detect a a frying
pan because you put a welding torch on
the in between you and it's how you're
like aha i can't see this welding torch
because i'm covering it with the frying
pan it's still very detectable you know
it's very hot you can see it it will
eventually glow visibly but it's glowing
in front in the meantime and that's
basically what it comes down to
don't do that with any of my frying pans
no
trusty source says the universe is 13
billion plus years old and i'm alive at
this time to witness them this majestic
stream
my question is what do you think humans
will do first mine earth's core or
asteroids that may be one of the most
impressive comments ever
so what was the actual question again
now
busy being flattered
um
what do you think humans will do first
mining earth's core or asteroids um okay
um
it's really hard to mine or score
without i mean certain types of
materials that i don't think we're going
to get in the next decade or two
essentially if we have a situation where
suddenly space flight gets a lot cheaper
we asteroid mine if on their hand we
still get very good metallogen active
support structures like the methods we
talked about for drilling gigantic holes
into the planet in the accessing earth's
core episode that we do that first but
my
hunch would be that we would do asteroid
mining
long before we have that earth's core
especially because
people are gonna be a lot more hesitant
to be like hey
uh we'd like to machine gun the planet
with nuclear bombs to drill a hole in
there and let out a massive volcano
you guys okay with that no no okay
so there might be a little bit of an
absorption factor whereas i don't think
they really care if we buy asteroids
unless we try to bring them home to
refine them which we wouldn't because
it's a waste of fuel so asteroid mining
first probably
all right stephen pilling wants to know
if you subscribe to the theory that
venus was habitable until recently
um i guess it depends on how recently oh
he says fairly recently sorry until
fairly recently um
i would assume that it hasn't been
habitable for at least as long as
humanity's been around just because
otherwise you probably see all the
evidence debris of some collision having
happened the usual assumption which
there's a lot of debate about obviously
because we got about jack for evidence
is that uh earth sorry venus's slow spin
is caused by some collision at some
point in time whether that was shortly
after the formation of the solar system
or shortly before we had uh the ability
to track astronomy is very hard to say
um and should be toward a detonation
like that of recording anything
approaching recent times and i mean even
you know in in the geological record
would probably show up on earth as a
cloud of debris too because that's just
such a you talk about slowing the planet
down that that energy involves rotation
is actually very parallel to its orbital
energy and the energy you need to take
it apart with it like a death stall very
big
you know very big use of energy like a
week's worth of solar energy so it's big
right but uh my hunch would be no not
not any time in the last millions of
years
okay the next question here is from
nikla gador i'm sorry i don't think i
pronounced that right
yeah anyway
inn wants to know what methods of
manufacturing do you think that
kardashev type 2 and 3 civilizations
have at their disposal nano assemblers
an advanced form of today's
manufacturing methods or something else
well i think one thing we always kind of
want to jump on right from the get go
here is is the collection of anything
being a you know any kt or k3 status
having anything to do with technology
um for the longest time we had a ban on
mentioning any type of
uh k
e number above three except for k9
because made for good jokes on our
futurism forum on facebook just because
people were using it as basically uh
what would super advanced godlike aliens
do to which the answer is if that scale
whatever they feel like right um when
we're trying to talk about defined
boundaries we will have nano assemblers
if there's something we can make
before we actually have any reason to
need a dyson swarm uh with the possible
exception of if we is actually something
like skynet and the reason why it needs
them is because it wants to build itself
into a materials brain in the next few
centuries um
it's not likely to be too much
technology of the kind we've already
dreamed up that's actually operates
under known physics that we won't have
gotten or gotten something better of
this more practical in the next century
or two right it's just we can see that
far out it's hard for us not to get
there nano assemblers are something we
might discover in the next decade it
might be this upcoming century whatever
it happens to be it's not gonna be one
of those things that requires you to
have settle the entire solar system or
galaxy to get there so i as to that the
basic idea is though that
counter shape scale is about how much
energy you have your fingertips and
while that tends to imply a lot of solar
you know a lot of technology and things
like that there is no correlation
it's probable in my guess that you
probably plateau on technology before
you ever get to k2
uh you know that you just got a whole
new levels of physics that you know we
can't even contemplate discussing by now
so
all right i'm going to put out a request
that people not use acronyms because i
can't interpret them all correctly but
we have a question here from chris
richardson he says hi isaac and sarah
greetings from achille uk tonight
considering budget and current
advancements in technology what system
do you think could replace conventional
rocketry for leo first
okay so for everybody else who doesn't
know on that one leo leo low earth orbit
it's the area that's about uh i guess
200 miles to about 1000 miles up give or
take look up on wikipedia if you want
though i don't know if it's actually
originally defined usually things which
have an orbital time of a little over
two hours or less medium orbits up to
about uh well like 10 000 kilometers and
then high orbits everything else up to
geostationary at 40 000 kilometers or 24
000 miles something like that don't
quote me on any of those numbers um
ways to get to low earth orbit that
would be
likely to happen other than rockets the
big thing about orbital rings as well
there i've actually seen some pretty
impressive designs in more recent years
of people kind of screwing out the idea
of putting ordering up in the next few
decades at a reasonably
you know low scale bootstrapping
approach um however i generally tend to
be at the opinion that if you're looking
for something that's not a rocket launch
to space in the near future
it's probably either going to be a
scramjet kind of like that microwave
scramjet which we've looked at in space
planes
possibly combined with a sky hook
or it's going to be somebody going for
them the mass drive or space catapult
approach um the orbital ring and the
space towers they just require
well first they really work their best
if you have superconductors warm
temperature or not that you can actually
build reasonably cheaply and something
that's about a magnetic shield than new
metal um
and then if you've got those they're all
about throughput an orbital ring is like
a railroad or a freeway you build them
to places where you're moving a lot of
stuff
and they're not profitable to build
under most glasses until you're there
right now we're taking the the pontoon
airplane out there that can land
anywhere on on some random body of water
and that's what we're using to explore
this new area later on when there's
suburbs and cities there that's when you
build the four lane highway and that's
the orbital rig
sounds like a really great analogy um
hope so
algorithm dianza says thank you isaac
and sarah i enjoy the fun science and
the banter between you two brightens up
my day bless you and your family and
happy holidays thank you
um
floor horabek if we were to able to
create a bubble of electro weak force
around a spaceship and heat up the
universe in front and around could we
use a quark gluon plasma drive to travel
faster than light
no
i can't
let me qualify that by a little bit
because that one's got so much to unpack
on it that i'm not sure i'd want to try
to do it on the spot anyway but i can't
think of anything that would come from
getting us up to anything else than a
plank temperature which is the maximum
temperature you have in the universe in
theory that would actually have any kind
of real warping effect on something like
space time um
and at the context that temperature
energy density kind of things
can obviously warp space-time too um
i really don't see how that one would
work
but i'd probably have to think about it
more if i just give you an absolute
definite no
wh colors 999
when you think of practical ways to
harness energy throughout humanity's
future expansion into the stars what's
the first thing that comes to mind
i think of practical ways to harness
energy okay throughout
um possibly because i just got done
recording the episode for the future of
solar power so that's out and sometime
in january or february probably february
this one
um
power satellites are really one of my
go-to's for real power adaptation solar
in general if you'd asked me 10 years
ago about solar i would have said
eventually but probably not for a couple
more decades and that was getting hyped
um i would say that that that we've
we're still in the hyped phase but we
are definitely past the extreme overhype
phase the next step is do we get
batteries next or do we get really
compact reliable molten salt generators
reapers houses next door it's the exact
kind of format that's going to run into
for what's the thing that gets you
through the cloudy days and that could
be like well we'll discuss in that
episode but that's going to be the other
half of that equation whether it's
batteries or solar
power satellites microwave beaming
nuclear power etcetera
all right
keylon one says how would a dyson swarm
be set up
around
close medium and far binary systems
okay well for context there is some
disagreement sometimes that what
qualifies as close medium fall
for the record the proxima centauri
system around alpha centauri and it's
two bits we're not even sure if that's
actually part of that same solar system
but that would definitely be on the far
side but usually we'd say close if you
couldn't actually get a planet in there
at all right if the two stars were you
know
mercury distance from each other or less
or maybe a bit more medium is when you
could actually have a planet system
around one but not much of one
like maybe each of the two stars has a
plano two orbiting there a few a year
apart or whatever and then far would be
anything class maybe 20 au um
the difference then is exactly where
with the planet that's right if you're
trying to make a stable dyson swarm and
and this is even the point being
semi-stable like you get with two
binaries it gets a little tricky um
you probably are going to always want to
do it around both of them
if it if they're closer than say 10 a.u
you'd probably just be better off
putting them around each one or maybe
putting your main thing around the
bigger one and the smaller one is
strictly a solo collector set up or
something like that
maybe you're closer than that but
otherwise i'd say anytime you start
getting out to the stars
closer than saturn is to our sun build
it around the whole thing and that
obviously depends on whether there are
pair of red dwarf binaries or if there's
some you know spiker class one so
all right we get some unique names on
here
the withering liberal wants to know if
since the sun is moving in the milky way
isn't its light or part of it anyway
moving faster than the speed of light
what was the first half of that sentence
since the sun is moving in the milky way
isn't its light or part of it anyway
moving faster than the speed of light no
now light can never move faster itself
of course for one thing but uh the milky
way things opening the milky way are
really not opening all that much faster
than the things that overall and sun do
that's why it takes like 200 million
years for a sun to go around the highest
speeds you really see out of anything in
you know you know solar system
galaxy is you know a few hundred
kilometers a second right yes some
things don't north of that but that's
because they're an ejected object
honestly out of the galaxy that's been
kicked out by perturbation right um
and there is definitely an actual time
lag involved if you look at the core of
the galaxy versus where we're at versus
out on the fringes time runs at
different speeds there and enough you
you could actually not really measure on
your stopwatch but probably don't need
the full-on atomic clock setup if you
want to be patient
um
but uh
they're still talking about very slow
speeds in terms of the speed of light uh
300 kilometers per second is still one
thousandth of light speed and you'd
barely have any real time dilation from
that alone
um
so
no and then the other aspect of that is
if you think about context of like is
the light from the sun
uh going fast and light related to
something that's expanding away from us
that's not really how that process works
and again it slows how quickly
lightweight gets distant objects not
speeds it up so
okay well while we're on the topic of
faster than light we've got a question
here from two men as well isaac you said
that faster than light travel is
probably impossible but of the different
theoretical faster than light methods
what do you find most plausible
um most plausible
i mean i i kind of feel like even
answering that's a little bit uh
problematic because there's there's
going to be a change in laws of physics
that would make someone that viable um i
don't think that
anything that allow you to violate
causality is ever going to be possible
so
probably only something like a
congruence hyperspace jump right if we
have a multiverse setup or another
alternate reality is kind of set up
where you could just do the page tween
like we looked at the 40 not the 40
space episode sorry the edge of the
universe episode that's a nominal
hyperspace episode i see that's probably
your
your one i find most plausible to
function without some kind of horrible
paradox attached and there's a thing to
remember i i think you know you have
something like a quantum drive that
might find the one way in the universe
rules you could suddenly drop from one
side of the universe to the other but it
might also erase you from history in the
process or find that one backwards
reality that makes you event having
never taken place which includes no life
on your planet ever existing you know
um from albert jackson good afternoon
albert he says good afternoon isaac and
sarah apologies if my question is
slightly broad how would something
similar to a space coast guard work and
would that structure make any sense in
the first
place oh my um hmm
well first uh as an ex-army person let
me go ahead and give props to you when
it actually is coast guard out there is
probably one of the least uh applauded
services that actually works for me on a
daily basis even in gayos and so very
dangerous job though mostly for mother
nature but she's really deadly so
it shouldn't be up a lot
um as the coast guard set up
the biggest issue you're gonna have with
the kind of classic thought there of
them like running up and grabbing your
ship is that everything's slow in space
because it's so huge i mean everything's
moving you know a hundred times faster
the other day on earth but
it's so slow because even trying to
rendezvous with something that was as
close as like the moon was
uh is going to get hours um and
like even a full-on dyson or kosher f2
setup in the you know system right where
earth's at you might have people who are
able to get to things in neo minutes but
that would be kind of the the localized
exception and in that setup you might
actually have the kind of classic coast
guard with a little kind of runs out and
grabs people off the ship what explodes
otherwise think of them as the folks who
go into the debris
scattered over several u in a cone and
try to pick out the life pods and the
frozen bodies that they can revive via
you know advanced technology
or just the heads what was that the idea
that that's the the one type of like
best life support would be that your
your spacesuit cuts your head off and
just keeps the helmet there so
that's disturbing
efficient
jim whitehead are you happy that nasa is
experimenting with slamming a satellite
into an asteroid
yes and then he comments it's about time
yes
i
it was probably fairly unfair to
president obama i don't know the exact
headline but like the day after he got
in his uh or the same day he got his
nobel prize is when nasa was ramming a
uh satellite into the moon to see what
it explodes as and it and so somebody
done a dual headlines president obama
gets nominated for peace prize or world
peace prize on the side united states
bombs moon
rememberable headline
certainly it's a good pale but that's
kind of a hard joke to resist doing
uh we of course ram the moon because we
want to see what was underneath the
crust in a way that we really couldn't
even do by sending astronauts back to
drill there uh but you know when you ram
a satellite into something that is
very energy intense you know like a 100
kilogram satellite spike is coming in at
hypersonic velocity it's going to leave
a nice trail of dust feed examined and
i'm glad we're finally going to go down
to blowing up some asteroids too just on
principle
i'm not sure what science ski done by
that but still sounds cool
well let's hope it's something
productive nick zinc says is it possible
to artificially create multiple habitat
planets within our solar system by
dismantling other planets and having
them house life for billions of years
um i mean one of the things that comes
up folks will say well what if we uh
what if we took venus you know or where
we took mars and add some of the
asteroids to it um mars entire mass plus
the entire asteroid belt
still would not be very noticeably more
massive because the asteroid belt weighs
an 80th of what our moon does which is
what we do if you jammed every one of
the moons and asteroids together except
for venus right that was in our solar
system all your ganymedes pluto's you
know all those all those objects mercury
included and what was included you come
with one other planet that was in the
venus earth mass category so it's not
really an efficient use of mass if
you're trying to build large plants if
you are trying to build lots of large
planets then you have of course the
classic shellwood options we look at
which is where you go ahead and
disassemble something like mercury or
venus to use as the crust
of a large hollow planet that you filled
up with something like hypodense helium
or or hydrogen which are plentifully
available in large quantity or even a
black hole which is and you know a a
good way to make sure you have to worry
about the pressure differences of using
like a hot gas and people would usually
say well isn't that a little bit
dangerous to have this planet full of
hot gas or a black hole we say sure it's
got nice core 40 on top of these hot gas
or this black hole and that's not really
more dangerous than floating on our
current core of superheated liquid metal
that's highly radioactive so oh when you
put it that way
in that context it's pretty safe
um
thomas whitfield wants to know what
order you recommend a newcomer to your
channel watch your videos from oldest to
newest or what series would you
recommend first definitely not oldest to
newest i i have the chronological like
playlist available to people and i
always add every new episode to it but
that's really more for nostalgia moments
for folks who want to go back and like
binge it
um i wouldn't really suggest watching
any of the episodes
prior to like the middle of season two
uh like episode 50 or so that's when we
started kind of getting better audio and
visual it's actually a little bit
painful for you watching season one
stuff just because the av is pretty bad
um that's back when i used to a lot of
the animations too but which i'm not
very good at
um
let's see
if i was gonna suggest a place to start
what i what i usually is look through
the last 20 videos right look through
the last 20 25 videos down at the top
list for youtube um
see which of those grab your eye and
then go look at playlists to see which
one they're part of the playlist of and
that's probably a good place to start
and then feel free to skip the first
couple episodes of the avs not too good
because a lot of those playlists began a
lot of the series began with that it
wasn't too good upward bound and outward
bound though are the two series that i
would usually say are like the
first ones you can watch all of even now
with good good production value the
fully paradox series you don't mind
skipping the first video is pretty good
too so
i think this is a good question to go to
break on we have a super chat from merv
johnson thank you merv for your donation
and he says as an evil crowd-funded a.i
what's on your santa claus machines
production queue
what is on my scent see i have this
problem is i try not to think about
christmas too much in advance on both
days because
once i have the gift for somebody i want
to just give it to the provided waist to
keep the maximum time out of it and so i
actually have a note on my wife's
birthday for instance that comes up in
advance or unforeseen for christmas get
her a gift specifically on this date
do not give it to her before then right
because you like to spoil it by
giving it to me early or
you know weeks in advance and then the
birthday is not as entertaining and so i
i don't actually do too much shopping
for anyone
i know very well and for the most part
my wife selects a lot of our owns we get
for closer friends we're doing good with
your christmas card soon so um
that's the one i'm probably paying much
attention to at the moment but
i would say they involve electricity
technology did you involve electricity
and technology in many cases
old-fashioned
hands-on skills there we go
so uh also
weapons of mass destruction so but only
for a selected small group of people
that it's not the a-list we call it
we're gonna go ahead and go to break
we'll see in about four minutes
so we are halfway through today's show
and we'll be taking a break for a few
minutes and i thought it was a good time
to discuss a question that comes up in
various forms but is a bit too short for
its own episode and that's basically
whether or not you would use energy
weapons on a planet or some form of
bullet or shell
laser rifles are a staple of science
fiction but the truth is they are very
limited in range for use in atmosphere
and their big advantage is they move
really really fast as fast you can see
them coming
see the laser pistols and lightsabers
episode for more discussion of their
pros and cons however they cannot be
used to shoot over horizon for instance
which a projectile like a bullet can do
and speed is less of an issue here as an
example here on earth where your horizon
is only about 5 kilometers for someone
at head height viewing a flat expanse
light needs only 17 milliseconds to
cover that distance but modern bullets
often move at an order of kilometers a
second and rarely can you see unhindered
to the natural horizon so that speed
issue isn't as big a deal
however some high-tech non-chemical
projectiles like an electromagnetically
propelled bullet or self-propelled
bullet driven by miniscule amounts of
antimatter rather than gunpowder might
achieve velocities of tens or even
hundreds of kilometers a second
now generally if you've got a battery
able to be man portable enough and able
to discharge fast enough to make a laser
rifle possible you could also use it and
mostly more energy efficiently to fire
metal slugs electromagnetically
so this would seem to make projectiles
more useful for combat on a planet but
there is one big problem if your bullets
are moving faster than escape velocity
they won't hit a target over the horizon
either they'll fly into an orbit or
escape trajectory and of course none
this helps hit a target behind an
obstacle like a wall
and unless your enemy is stupid or
superbly armored they are going to take
advantage of cover
now usually the answer to hitting
someone behind cover is just a suit so
much or so hard that it pierces through
but a better method for performance is
probably to have your bullet come around
and hit the obstructed target from a
direction it is not obstructed from
with that in mind you are full bullets
that are either essentially micro
missiles with their own rocket flame
which also helps to minimize kick in the
gun or some being smart able to
determine distance and potentially
change its form to become narrow and
skinny or wide and angled like wings or
a parachute to maneuver in the air and
potentially slip into armored targets as
a tiny long needle then spread itself
wider inside to shred the target up
now this is even harder on airless moon
or asteroid with even lower gravity and
escape velocity which is virtually every
rock in the universe big planets like
earth being pretty rare though as a side
note most guns contain their own
oxidizer and do not need air to fire and
thus can fire underwater or in the
vacuum as a result
this raises one other weapon approach
though which is good for dealing with
armored targets imagine you had a
torpedo that intentionally shot past his
targets then found a gun at their less
armored flanks or back
this is something which we contemplate
with a bomb pumped laser single-use
laser is powered by a nuclear blast that
pumps out an enormously powerful laser
beam in the bare instant before the
blast shreds the device
and we envision these on missiles or
torpedoes for big spaceships battery
over thousands or millions of kilometers
we could create this at a smaller scale
with antimatter or antimatter catalyzed
fusion but we could also imagine a
bullet that was essentially a gun barrel
itself able to turn and fire a smaller
board at the back of the target as it
flew past somewhat again to a tank saber
round
so the takeaway is that we may see a lot
of use of classic bullets and directed
energy weapons in the future but that
when we start talking about smart
weapons this might be the kind we really
see ones that basically fire guns or
other weapon platforms themselves rather
than simple slugs
alright with that said let's get back to
the show and back to more of your
questions
so an interesting one that was from
silver hollow thank you for your
donation says inspired by your brake
message i'm of the opinion that every
weapon is an energy weapon just
sometimes the energy is more kinetic and
yes that's a fair point
uh that you definitely have all these
types of energy based weapons i suppose
some might be strictly non-energetically
something like psychological warfare if
you guys have seen that uh rick and
morty episode where uh someone was you
know keep somewhere safe she's in his
car while they're in his
car battery trying to uh
enslave a bunch of people
so they always see it strictly being
used as psychological warfare so i guess
that wouldn't be as energy intensive
that's a little crazy all right thank
you dave tuttle for your super chat and
he wants to know what your
recommendation for the best pan galactic
gargle blaster recipe is
um i think it involves a lemon bean ripe
you say you get 11 you get some lemon
slices and you wrap it around a large
gold brick uh
and then you
whack someone across the head with it
that's apparently the normal description
of a pan galactic cargo plaster my
wife's staring at me like i'm insane
because she's not actually red
hitchhiker's got the galaxy yet so i'm
trying to tell you the other day she
really needs to listen the audio track
for that so
although i don't know that anyone who's
actually listened to the hitchhiker's
guide the galaxy would actually
still not think that something that was
insane but i would definitely say that
it makes it sound a little bit less like
you're insane when vicki references
that you have friends
all right jamal enusa says hi arthur
greetings from ghana my question is how
long till we get the type of metaverse
meta is promoting now how will it affect
society and what types of technology
will be needed to achieve it
i actually have no idea of what the
reference there is to
um if somebody knows what that is you
can kind of post it in there and send
you just kind of shoot that back up if
we what the metaphor speed reference
does i don't know okay sorry about that
uh kevvie
do you think we'll ever improvise
spacesuits in space or on asteroids
improvise them um i mean you're going to
have to at some point in time improvise
space suits to your location location a
little bit more but uh i think that's
if people out there use them a lot
they're going to improvise both
solutions to them on the spot that's
kind of how that works out um but
you're like do you want one that's
lighter or leaks
faster really depends a lot your
circumstances how much weight on tail is
okay how much uv it deflects that's all
very specific to your circumstances and
what you need to do
all right danger noodle thank you for
your super chat
what
the names always
yes well i think that's what it says
i mean it could be a spaghetti noodle
that's gonna get eaten it's in danger
what was the question
oh they asked the question
hi isaac i am curious about black holes
and time dilation since time slows down
the closer you get from a black hole is
it possible that you can never reach it
is it as time becomes still
um no because we usually hold the
pullman that freezes is is at that very
central point but
the one thing i always say about stuff
like this is that it's very dependent on
on how people choose to look at problems
with infinity uh singularity is a
topological concept right you hear it
used a lot of other things but what it
means is
poorly defined which is say our current
math on it doesn't actually make sense
uh examples of singularities are the
corners of a cube try to describe the
corner of a cube properly in terms of
where you're at on one three sides and
it gets a little confusing right
um
as you're approaching the black hole
time slows down and you're going for
faster so you get every distance even
faster and it's basically the xenos
paradox thing but the thing is we know
what the answer is xenos paradox is if
you take a step towards the wall and
then you take a step that's half as long
as another one and take another step
it's half as much you still get there
right that's how that ends up working
out in terms of practical reality always
be aware you have any solutions that
involve infinity
zero or one so like how do you even know
if two electrons have truly got exactly
equal mass for instance
here's another
interesting screen name
moop
boop okay
isaac what's some good military sci-fi
that doesn't uh suck something along the
lines of armor or spaceship troopers
oh starship troopers is good um
that would be a good example when it
doesn't suck
david webber writes some really good
stuff i've heard a lot of people give
compliments to john ringo he's been on
my list to watch forever and i keep
forgetting marky cooper's monkey yari
wars is another good one uh although i
haven't caught up the series since book
four came out um
i would i would list those as really
good ones to start off with
david webber oh baby david drake has
also listed that diversity on some of
his fantasy walk and schlock mercenary
is apparently very popular on web comics
but there's there's a lot of them those
will get you a good place to start
though
i definitely say david webb would be the
one i'd start force with though
okay
this is a
interesting question
and i can already guess your answer so
maybe i'll have to answer it for you
this is from c.r smith
will it be possible to eat aliens
and your answer is
it depends
well it does depend um you know it's
it's always possible to eat something if
he wants you enough right let's let's
leave it there whether or not it's going
to be healthy for you to eat that
depends entirely on your civilization's
level of technology so i want you to
imagine a very gastronomical race that
really believes in going around the
universe and
sampling the cuisine of their neighbors
right
they can find a way to
eventually find something that's
probably not lethal to them in terms of
actually eating it tasting it and not
falling over dead
um although as we usually say you want
to be really careful because they're
going to be microbes and differences
there because like was it for one
episode
alien beer is a real killer
frank frankly i love your videos and i
found the self-replicating machines
video and have been a fan ever since i'd
love to see a part two focused on
berserker probes
he's a big fan of the forge of god and
the anvil of stars books yeah those are
good ones too
oh that's what it was alien beer it's to
die for
and the joke being that we could tell
people not to eat alien cuisine food but
someone would end up borrowing the stuff
like moonshine and bringing through you
know the back channel and then you end
up with some horrible plague over
running your planet from that um
forge of god is a good one uh and so
example stars obviously i think one of
them was a book of the month some time
back
um
but i can't oh bazoka probes yeah so i
think that was fred saberhagen i can
never remember from testing his name
right uh he does a lot of fancy work to
like book of swords
that came up with the extra term
uh berserker pro but don't quote me on
that might have been paul anderson um
the basic idea is this is that goes out
there and its only job is to kill stuff
that is not on the approved list
and uh this often zones like a
terraforming probe would act like a
bizarco probe too because it goes around
says well this planet isn't really human
compatible and we want to get nice and
human so let's kill everybody on it um
and uh
there is often an argument as to if any
probe that was actually capable of
taking action would not automatically
count as a berserker probe too
um
i would tend to assume self-replicating
probes that are designed to do more than
replicate very carefully just for
probing would generally be on that list
of things that polite civilizations
don't throw out into the galaxy too
um
i think the berzocal probes are probably
counterindicated though because
you can have them just take a little bit
of space apart to make just what weapons
they need and we do an episode coming up
that discusses the effort we solved um
but
uh was it belligerent aliens oh no that
wasn't it was a different different
aliens one
by and large if you actually had a
bazooka probe loose in the universal
galaxy the format you'd expect to take
was disassemble everything to make guns
that way there's no wind no place for
anyone to actually live on or hide
behind and you have a lot of home to
deal with any place that you might have
forgotten
um david richard has a question similar
to some of the ones before the break
could alternate universes account for
the mass of dark matter
um
no but
dark energy potentially there is a
tendency to confuse dark matter energies
that they're related they are well they
could be because we don't know what i've
said they definitely are not but
basically what they have in common is
that they're mysterious and and there's
lots of them um
and dark matter is probably nothing more
than weakly interacting particles that
are weakly interacting in common
um like neutrinos or obviously like a
lot of matter um
the you know another thing to keep in
mind is we got a lot of quarks we have
six types of quarks and and three types
of neutrinos and three types of you know
uh
you know that's it's horrible like
leptons besides those like the electron
tail on and move on and they really
don't get used in matter besides the up
down ones and the uh
and the electrons so for all we know
dark matter could turn out to be some
weird combination of those that's better
stable um but odds are it's just some
kind of weakly interacting particle that
we're not familiar with like the
neutrino but most of the quarks actually
weigh more than your in that mass range
they could do that um as to only
universes being part of that matter
effect i wouldn't think so not the way
the distributor was really close to
galaxies like halo it's just the way
dark matter is distributed and we can't
detect it in the growth sense it acts
exactly like something that doesn't like
to interact with the particles to create
like a discount of black whole wood and
just revolve around the galaxy's a big
sphere so
all right law of improbability would
social competition avoid the presumed
bias towards long-term population growth
and post-scarcity civilizations
i don't think it would um i mean there's
it's kind of one of those things where
it's a little like the basic concept of
evolution itself or statistical odds
you really should never expect any
protracted period of time going on where
there's not a clear advantage to it
without it not happening right as long
as you got a good amount of resources to
work with
and it's advantageous to have more folks
around you're pretty much always going
to head to that direction unless people
really want them not to and you have to
ask well why wouldn't they want them to
and
that's gotta be a good enough excuse
like go to wolves in a lot of cases too
not just well i feel like i'm you know
in a population eight billion i just
don't feel as special as i did in the
population of a million that one's not
going to really fly we start trying to
make laws about it it's like well why
should we ban more people we got plenty
of resources and food to give them with
all these new worlds and someone could
say i just don't feel that important to
you or if there's so many more people
and i think most of us would respond if
we can't sympathize with that
too bad
so i don't think that that would be the
case in terms of countering population
growth
johnny wings hi isaac and sarah i love
the show you mentioned that you're doing
an episode on the orion project soon
given it's a great power and energy
density could it start orbital
infrastructure
um
i mean then the orion project episode
would be the very next it's the very
first episode of the next year so one
that's not actually up on the screen as
we go through like you can vote
performance up right now we got
everything up through the very last
episode of the year um the orion project
to me is almost something you would
never actually do in low orbit uh i i
would even not be surprised if the
nuclear package was delivered to the
ship by railgun off the moon
after it already been kicked up to speed
by something like a laser beaming system
as whether or not it would cause open
infrastructure to develop while we were
building the thing oh yeah i mean even
the relatively small orion generation
ships you know because you used like
going to mars of course too that they're
smaller but any of those like
full-on oaks those are talking about
you're talking about multiple billions
of dollars worth of manufacturing going
on monthly at that point in time launch
it's big you know it's it's maybe not
quite like detroit city ford or gm
levels of manufacturing for one ship but
you get up there pretty quick
all right uh pulls jet thank you so much
for your super chat how about
perchloratase on mars used for solid
rocket fuel to orbit materials
um poke loads
also you need to filter out the soil on
poles if you want to be able to eat food
there um yeah you can use a fuel basis
uh you can use aluminum and ice off of
uh the moon for it too you can use
aluminum on mouse you know there's ice
on most definitively definitely mice on
mars and there's aluminum on mars i
don't know the exact quarters that but
i'd be willing to bet it's somewhere in
the city the same as the moon the earth
is there's a lot of aluminum out there
in the solar system
um and
you
probably fundamentally have to find the
power source for manufacturing there and
then at that point in time it's just
which of them is most easy to actually
manufacture with your energy on hand and
with the facilities you have on hand and
i'm not chemist enough to what the
process would be on that but i would
guess
you probably want to using something
that doesn't require you do anything
really at pressure or very low pressures
in terms of your chemistry because
that's every extra you know pound of new
metal for piping that doesn't explode
under pressure that kind of thing so
um whatever that one happened to be with
my guess as the preferred method
all right ricky simpson is asking if
hostile ai is a serious danger
yes um hostile ais would be absolutely
terrifying
i mean it's hostile intelligence it
depends on how smart it is but it's even
fairly close to human let alone more
than human think of it as dangerous a
hostile mind is a dangerous thing
and a hostile alien mind because either
it's an ai or you know it's inhuman
whether it's like an uplifted shark or
chimpanzee
or it comes from another galaxy the
thing is dangerous if it has brain your
neighbors are dangerous and the meat is
dangerous uh and that's got the same
attached right around though is
um you know
i think it's a very good idea to avoid
making human intelligent ai for quite
some time or uplift the animals that
smart partially because if aliens show
up tomorrow they're as smart as us uh
you know they already exist there's not
much we could do about that if we want
it regardless of the ethics um if we
actually make an ai that's intelligent
um
or an animal that we've uploaded to
intelligence at that point we got a bit
of an ethical responsibility for them
too and i don't think that really
permits us to start doing things like
putting kill switches in them for safety
measures
uh in which case you're now dealing with
something that's very intelligent very
dangerous and apparently hostile not a
good thing no that does sound rather
intimidating oh yeah yeah
uh i would say if you want an example of
why to be terrified of hostile ai i'd
recommend to everybody holland ellison's
classic short story
i have no mouth but i must scream it's
it teaches you why it's good to be
afraid of ai
silver harlow thank you for your super
chat and h has a question if let's say
humans start colonizing mars by 2040
when do you think the first independent
states will start popping up and how
would their economy and culture look
yeah we talked about this a little bit
in uh well i think in one of okay mars
episodes but a little bit in our battle
for the moon episode i always assume
independent states will be i mean you
might have a couple pop-up as micro
nations that will almost more of like
this nation now exists because it broke
away from this big country and this
other big country want to thumb their
nose at them and is as basically
bankrolling the whole operation there
should be very few occasions where you
have independent nations starting up in
this solar system until they are
far enough in the future you got
millions and millions of people at them
uh solar systems besides ours they have
to be independent nations from day one
because they can't get contact home
otherwise you assume you almost always
stay with your parent nation
if you got one that you basically
like have out of a tater like
switzerland agrees to be your legal
representative for importation customs
and u.n right
honda's farmer thank you for your super
chat and he says thank you for all you
two do
question warp drive win 2150 25 10.
99 199 000. whoop drive neville um warp
drive never
i don't think that was the answer he was
looking for can you fish around and find
a different answer see your episode on
warp drives
um is that all oh yeah that's i'm trying
to track it through some more of them
fast we'll try it out donald bellow have
you read inhibitor phase by a reynolds
and did you like it uh you know i
actually just finished up that long ago
and uh i will say
that i mean it's he's still my favorite
sci-fi although it's probably my
favorite that's one of my favorite
series but i didn't
i felt like it was a little bit of a
weak fourth book for the main trilogy
and and borrowed a lot of elements that
were already done better in chasm city
and redemption all but it was a good
book it was better than most sci-fi i've
had but i think it was quite the
standard of that trilogy so
okay well of course expectations just
grow with years too it's been a long
time he was in the series true i
definitely recommend that trilogy that
one though
rafflecopter kerman you mentioned in
fleet of stars that you could pack
enough red dwarfs together to black hole
the civilization do you think that star
cluster would continue existing in that
galactic mass black hole
um the idea being that if you just keep
packing enough matter in one place at
some point it falls in the event horizon
uh there's some issues there with frame
dragging and putting stuff in there but
uh i think that would continue to exist
yeah i think if you build something that
big you just find yourself on the other
side of that event horizon you keep
seeing stuff falling in from the other
side of course you like the universe we
walled off from you but everybody else
would suddenly see you kind of disappear
okay crosstalk wants to know hey isaac
what are your thoughts about the dark
forest theory greetings from swiss
see your episode fully paradox dark
force theory so wait we actually have a
whole one there we go
dark force theory all right awesome
thought criminal what do you think would
be the implications of the simulation
hypothesis being proven correct
if we could prove we lived in simulation
would you act any differently now
um you know the simulation theory is
potentially
exactly identical but depending on
flavor to
the universe was created by god a group
of gods brahma in a sleeping state etc
all you're doing is substituting the
word computer in there which when you
think about it when it's being built at
a higher level than you
probably doesn't even run on silicon for
instance uh measly makes it meaningless
to call it a computer at that point it's
just is there a higher layer of reality
that created and controls this one and
that can vary a bit but that's that's
what you're looking at at that point in
time um people are going to have
themselves adjusted exactly as they
would if they found out tomorrow that
you know brahma was real and was here
for instance right
abu hello from romania love the show
with the upcoming launch of james webb
will you make an episode about
clandestine alien spy telescopes that
are watching us now
um that actually sounds like a really
awesome episode idea
uh spying aliens um
if i could think of a cool name for that
and remember until after we went on the
q a probably i like that idea he says
clandestine clandestine aliens
clandestine aliens someone on the team
sent me an email or message about that
so i don't forget it next question all
right
thank you merv johnson for your super
chat and he wants to know if an
accelerator launch loop
would have to be enclosed with which
constrains ship design options or is it
always best used for cargo pods rather
than ships um you could do a really long
one the the big thing that we always
have to remember about the acceleration
process is that when we say things like
tony radius in order like toner ship
before it would crush you the one g20
radius around this planet or the 0.981
is actual orbital velocity that's
exactly how that works if you want to
turn around at roughly over the velocity
you need the radius of the plant to do
it in um and uh
if you want to do a linear accelerator
like that a big long one basically the
same thing applies you have to have a
lot of distance the faster you want to
be going when you come out of it you get
around that by a higher acceleration
rate so you get faster for a cargo pod
but you could build a big long one that
was just between like here and pluto if
you wanted to
and uh essentially out of the other
solar system at um i got the 10th light
speed we got out or something like that
the actual mechanics engineering that
would probably not impossible though
i think i
skipped silver harlow's question earlier
they gave us a super chat thank you
again and their question was any hope
for geothermal power before it's too
late to help
um i mean i tend not to like answers
that involve like too late obviously if
everybody on the planet's actually dead
then it's too late but uh i tend to feel
like the best time to do something that
was last week is still tomorrow
geothermal is awesome for passive
cooling heating or even semi-active
heating cooling um but i don't think it
is the main power supply option not not
really for the levels we want to go to
and we you know again
solo has really improved one reason why
we're doing that future solo episode in
a couple months here is because that
actually has hit that point where it's
economically viable now
or at least very very close to it so
all right and from isaac bordeaux what
do you think of the private fusion
companies such as commonwealth fusion
systems
uh i mean there's too many of them that
i'm looking at for me to comment on
individually like polywhile for instance
i know of them a little bit better they
are working hard at it i don't know if
they're going to succeed but they are
working hard but whereas you got
something like cold fusion style
companies that are working hard on
scamming folks out of the cash and uh
you have to look at each individual
company you know which one is violent
but most of them really are working on a
fairly basic premise of like taco max
etc and they'll just see where they get
with it
this one sounds cool daniel wants to
know if you do speaking tours and if so
would you be willing to do one in
australia the answer is only if i'm
coming with you
oh there you go there's your answer uh i
don't do speaking in public too often
especially with covid but uh
i like the next one i'm set to do is in
la for the van corporation in
early mulch and i think i'm doing went
to glen uh space center here in ohio
sometime in may the nasa glenn yeah the
nasa glenn one and um
that's the only two i have scheduled at
the moment i don't throw a number by
zoom but that's
not in person
all right jayval90 thank you for your
super chat i think he's renaming us he
says hello authorities authorites
arthrite i thought it was authorities
you know you're the authority on
everything space and futurism
so my mother actually grew up near you
in amish country what do you think of
the idea of amish martians
i think that they are probably if your
goal is to minimize your technological
usages you know i would say you'd
actually be better off with someone you
know commissioning you and an o'neill
cylinder than trying to actually do a
place like mars um planets unless
they're like venus with a solar shade
would be pretty stable but
by and large terraforming plants isn't
really your answer for finding a good
place to live that's low tech you're
really all better off at that point hire
an engineering company to build you
something and maintain it
um but that's gonna obviously depend on
you know which particular brand of
uh anti-technology or non-technology
you're favoring
okay uh
super chat here's what part that was he
said he was from the area the
middle field maybe
all right
he didn't specify orion spur thank you
for your super chat and he wants to know
what are the odds that all the recent
uaps are simply standard issue alien ai
probes recording b-roll footage for a
galactic nature documentary or reality
show
to be honest that's a pretty good option
compared to a lot of the ones i've heard
it's kind of one up there with my one
about uh how they might be playing
basically running traffic while they
steal from the smithsonian or copper
collections or so forth
you got time for a few more yeah yeah i
think so
uh thought criminal says isaac what is
your opinion of eternalism do you think
einstein was right about time being an
illusion and that all of eternity exists
at the same time
um i mean if you look at a multiverse
setup where you have basically every
possible state the universe could be
configured into existing as one universe
then at that point in time you don't
really need time and time just becomes
your position in terms of which of those
you happen to be in
um and that's a valid way to look at it
especially if that turns out to be true
but you know people often ask why
doesn't multiverses violate conservation
of energy and there's two answers there
one we don't actually know that it that
it matters if there's any violation of
that it's not gonna say make your whole
new universe though is the other one
that's just where are you in that
quantum position
but i i don't i tend to think that i
really am not a big fan of multiverse
theory to be honest i'm a copenhagen
person one time one reality it moves
forward but that's just my preference
not my scientific opinion
so tacticalgamer says hey isaac will
there be a multi-alien species you in in
the future
you know i loved the tv show babylon 5
and i loved the game mass effect one
through three
my slash 20 minutes of of mass effect 3.
um
and uh ironically it's probably the
newest video game i've played much um
but um
i really don't think that's very likely
i really couldn't see
that set up so much for one thing it's
very reliant on the idea that there'd be
fashion like travel and communication uh
in the absence of that i really don't
see that happening too much though again
you could easily have dyson swarms that
were you know
big melting pots of all sorts of local
civilizations so
maybe kind of sort of but probably not
in that interstellar empire's kind of
way
okay mark carter says if we prove
primordial black holes are true with
craters on the moon could we harness
their energy
um
the thing about that is we'd actually
have to be able to say there was nothing
like enough density that we could find
them and then you have to go the effort
of like actually locating one
specifically
getting this vector down well enough
that you could actually set up something
around it to serve as a power generator
and then
you know again it's probably not giving
out very strong hockey radiation because
if it was they'd be a lot more visible
but
either tapping that'll find some way to
force feed it and get to spit out more
material and that's
you know that's iffy but yes it is
possible if they exist
okay i'm just gonna do a few more here
robert when do you think humans will see
the first space-born generation living
their entire lives off world
i'm not sure if anyone's ever lived
their entire life uh off the you know
the the six million continents uh i
don't think he was even born in
antarctica obviously there are a lot of
people born on islands that are part of
one of the continents but like nobody's
ever been born at live their entire life
for the vast majority of life at mcmurdo
in antarctica um so i would actually
guess something like that
probably not until you are looking at
having populations at least a few
thousand on a given asteroid or planets
and of course that first interstellar
colony would have that too so
not for century probably
all right
and pac bandit 13 how likely do you
think true ai will be invented and not
just really at an advanced algorithmic
scripting
i mean you can always take the
standpoint that humans are an advanced
algorithmic screening scripting at that
point but i'd say we already have ai i
mean not the ones that people really
want where you know it's like
a genuinely touring compliance advanced
intelligence that could really pass for
human
uh and not in some kind of weird
circumstance like oh everyone could be
afforded and think he's a human when
he's pretending to be an eight-year-old
boy who doesn't speak that to your
language he's talking natively
um
soon though next 20 or 30 years
even if assuming that you don't want to
say the audiences doesn't degree anyway
well it looks like we're out of time for
today and we'll have to queue up some of
these questions for the next go around
but
uh
been great being on the show with you oh
i i think that was our cue to go ahead
and wrap up for the day so again we will
be uh starting off december very shortly
here and the episode for that is going
to be our fermi paradox episode looking
at digital miniaturization
and um
uh we have a lot of ones up for the rest
of the month and we'll see you again for
a live stream which i think is on like
the 30th of next month
so right towards the end of things but
not actually on new year's
