[Music]
good afternoon and welcome to SF I a
we're going to be hosting today Fraser
Cain of Universe Today one of our sister
channels and let's just go ahead and get
started
good afternoon Fraser how you doing hey
Isaac doing great what does SFI stand
for Oh science and futures with Isaac
although we ended up with that title
just because it was the one that got
stuck on us we couldn't think of one
better on the face I suspect most
volumes is already very familiar with
your show we've collaborated before and
you've been around for quite some time
doing this but for those who aren't
familiar with Universe Today as a
publication a channel could you go ahead
and tell us how they got started and
what that's about
sure yeah I started Universe Today as
sort of us as a side gig I was working
for as a web developer back in the 90s
and in 1999 so weird almost 20 years now
I founded Universe Today as a way to
sort of stay in touch with the space
news that I had been a huge fan of I've
I read the case from Mars by Bob Zubrin
and pale blue dot by Carl Sagan and
those two books I was just like I was
I'd always been to space and I picked up
those two books and they just got me
completely riled up to do you know some
kind of space-related creative project
and so I started Universe Today it's
just a side project while I was doing my
my regular job and within a couple of
months I'm like oh this is what I want
to do for the rest of my life I want to
learn to be a science journalist and
report on space news forever and and I
was fortunately able to transition from
the one job to being able to to do this
work full-time and I haven't looked back
since
so yeah literally close in on 20 years
now of reporting on all the various
space news that's happening I surprised
by that but I've actually been tuned in
and while reading university articles
since I'd say about 20 years ago if they
oh maybe it's been like a child or
something
oh no I've picked up I think you know my
Layden my undergrad or they grab you
even early two-thousands though so
it's been I say usually it's one of the
ones I recommend about along with Paul
Gillis toll from Santo Adrian so
beautiful good astronomy information in
general there's really no better place
to get it in terms of astronomy I mean
we've seen it evolve a lot over the
years you were just walking about Sagan
and Zubin I was thinking back when I
first read that if case of a mall is in
the mid 90s we hadn't discovered a
single exoplanet yet yeah yeah 19 I'm
trying to think 1995 peg 51b was the
first proper exoplanet the hot Jupiter
that was found and so when you think
here we are 25 years later it's
mind-bending there are thousands of
exoplanets we have measured their
atmospheres found them in the habitable
zones planets around red dwarfs and some
like stars even planets around the
closest star to the Sun like it's such a
different world now
it's funny to think is that we found I
think 10 at least 10,000 of them now you
those candidates or hard hard
confirmations and yeah that's just
barely scratching the surface and you
think about like tests test is gonna
find about 15,000 planets
Gaia will potentially find tens of
thousands of planets and there's all
kinds of other projects and works the
European Space Agency has it's Cheops
mission which is gonna be like a
companion to test to find even more
world so I wouldn't be surprised if we
have this conversation 10 years from now
we would know of hundreds of thousands
of planets and yet we've probably got
billions of them potentially look for
interesting things on as we down the
road it's a must even find we've
catalogued so many of these stars and
galaxies out there and yet most these
things they they don't ever get a name
we probably could never even give them
all days they'll have a lot of repeats
but maybe the more important ones that
we find atmospheres around in habitable
zones we're getting ready to do some
launch Sun stuff like that what kind of
things should we be looking for I mean
we talk about techno Sancho's on
atmospheres of these planets trying to
hunt for them for SETI what are the
sorts of things would we do with that
what would we be looking for almost
well I mean in terms of techno city
signatures or bio signatures right like
like there's sort of two really big
schools schools of thought here right
this idea of of like when James Webb
launches it's gonna have the ability to
measure the atmospheres of planets
orbiting other stars and be able to look
for this is what the astronomers called
bio signatures like looking for some
kind of signal that there is life there
you know you come to Planet Earth and
you see the plants around and you you
see the oxygen and the atmosphere you
know that there is life there's
something that is out of balance that is
that it's generating this atmosphere
here on earth and so the quest is to
come up with a bio signature that then
astronomers can find on other star
systems and then use these powerful
telescopes like the James Webb to be
able to locate them it's actually a more
complicated problem than I think people
had had expected previously that we try
to figure out like an like an
unambiguous bio seizure
something that if you said oh we see it
then that means there's life it's
actually really tough and people have
proposed things like oxygen and ozone
and carbon dioxide and all kinds of
different methane different chemicals
and all of these there is a way that
they could be naturally produced but but
my guess is by the time James Webb
launches you know in the next thousand
years ago astronomers will have come
upon some set of of you know indicators
that says okay there is absolutely some
form of life on this planet that is
generating an atmosphere so it's
interesting to think that we are just a
couple of years away now from having an
instrument space that can that can try
to give us those sort of definitive
answers and even if if James Webb
doesn't do it there is you know there
are multiple telescopes following
afterwards there's a bunch of
ground-based telescopes like the
extremely large telescope there's some
space-based telescopes like leVoir that
will do an even more drum
version of this so I think that we are
you know I would say we're within 10 to
20 years of having the tools in place to
tell us if there is life orbiting other
stars
in our galactic backyard and that's just
like life that's just like whatever
slime mold and trees and trying to find
something that was an actual techno
seems a lot trickier but I think yeah
yeah and then at the same time I mean
NASA is taking this idea of SETI a lot
more seriously in the last couple of
years I mean for the longest time the
whole idea of SETI was was seen as
ridiculous that nobody would would
search for any kind of evidence of alien
civilizations and yet of course it is
easily the most important philosophical
question that a human being can ask
right are we alone in the universe
we want to know I always you know I
always provide this thought experiment
if I could give you an envelope and in
that envelope was the answer is you know
are there other alien civilizations in
the in the Milky Way would you want to
open that envelope would you want to
know the answer to that question right
either way as arthur c clarke said it's
an it's an interesting outcome so the
implications of what its gonna be like
if there is no other life on some ways
just as staggering as finding that live
nearby
I think scarier right the fact that if
we do it does turn out that there is no
life then then all the pressures on us
right like we can't mess it up or at
least the dolphins can't mess it up and
if the dolphins mess it up then the then
the octopuses can't mess it up if the
octopuses aren't able to pull it off and
you know and then maybe it's gonna be
the cockroaches then the Sun will have
expanded and destroyed all life boiled
away the oceans and then we're out of
chances but but one of us has got to be
able to pull this together to to spread
life into the universe if it is empty
and if it's not then then we don't have
to panic right we're like well let the
aliens figure that out and maybe they'll
invite us to their party of course that
is always well the concerns on SETI is
if they're all these
filters that prevent life from being to
come in what if some of them are still
ahead of us in time right of course yeah
I mean and that's of course that that
idea you know you find life on Mars you
find an unambiguous signal of an alien
civilization coming from another star
system and then you're like oh right
sounds like the great filter is ahead of
us now because we you know we just we
can we know that that something happened
to them that wiped them out and whatever
that thing is it's gonna wipe us out
next so long as you can never ask them
after the event without going there to
find their ruins oh yeah exactly we
should you know hopefully we can figure
it out but in theory you know the whole
key with the with the green filter of
course is there's no way to avoid it
it hits every 100 percent no matter how
hard you try no matter how well-prepared
you think you are a great filter comes
for all of us so um NASA organized this
this techno signatures workshop a couple
of months ago hanging back in September
2018 and brought together just some of
the best minds in the industry Jill
tarter of course who's one of the
founders of the SETI Institute and
really one of the main people behind the
search you know she was the subject of
of contact right
and David kipping the XO moon guys and
Jason Wright one of the people who
helped uncover information about tabi
star and you know another 40 or 50
people who are who are tangentially
working in this in this field and they
just sort of brought together all of
their ideas they gave each other a bunch
of presentations and then produced this
really wonderful report that is all the
different ways that you could search for
techno signatures out there in the
universe and which are the ones that are
gonna be the most likely to to provide
some kind of result and it's it's quite
amazing how some of these are are are
well along like when you look at things
like the Square Kilometre Array that's
being built in South Africa and
Australia it's going to be able to
detect the leaked electromagnetic
transmissions from
other civilizations like it could detect
us on earth not a directed SETI blast
but it could actually detect just us
watching television so we are say a
decade away from having a tool that can
just just sense the background
transmissions of other civilizations and
that question comes up a lot of times as
when we say looking for techno Satan
shows you know we'll talk about BIOS
angels only with that miss fears but for
techno scene shows the big low-hanging
food has always been looking for that
radio signal and then the other one we
used to do is a coalition of two
civilizations and we had that fun of
what was that last year we did the tips
for engineering and culture of Jesus was
a great episode to do yeah well and this
and this idea I mean that if you no
matter how advanced a civilization is
they can't hide their waste heat and so
you a Dyson Sphere would give off an
unambiguous signal of infrared radiation
a very strange way that would be
perceptible but a cart you know car - a
three civilization that had moved around
all of the stars of their entire galaxy
and enclosed them all in in dyson
sphere's would be even more on this so I
think that we are when you think about
like the tools that are available for us
to be able to search for some kind of
evidence are actually pretty significant
and then it always comes back to the
Fermi paradox where you're just like
where is everybody I have one of the
ones people always like to suggest on
the channel we discuss the point
paradoxes could those voids or could doc
metal or something like that all you
know ba K 2 or K 3 civilization and you
know that waste heat problem never
really tracks for a lot of folks and of
course maybe someone finds some way to
break the laws of thermodynamics down
the road for free lunch
besides radio signals and and waste heat
has he be suggesting the other good ways
a funny one and imagine Jason like might
have put up mega structures allow
installs yeah yeah yeah well it was
funny I just did an interview with Jason
Wright and he admitted that he was the
one who put the idea of mega structures
into everybody's brains and he's not an
unapologetic about it but
yeah no I mean I mean obviously there is
the just the direct transmissions right
you're looking at say a radio
transmission or an optical transmission
or some more exotic particle like a
neutrino or something that they could
use to try and communicate with us but
the other thing that we can always look
for is transit so you mentioned
megastructures
where you you know we have these really
sophisticated tools that are designed to
watch planets passing in front of their
stars and they see this it's unambiguous
signal that a planet is passing in front
of the star dimming the light from the
star and then reappearing and then the
the light reappears as the as the planet
moves away and it's you can actually
find this stuff with a with your with
your own telescope you know you can
confirm exoplanet discoveries with a
fairly small telescope but some great
tutorials on YouTube and and online if
you want to do that but if you had
something that was like the shape of a
triangle or some other shape some kind
of clearly artificial shape it would
give a very different light curve than a
nice round spherical planet and so
that's one of the other ways that they
proposed to be able to look for some
kind of evidence and then the other one
of course is just the idea that there
are historical artifacts here in our own
solar system that the alien
civilizations left here you know they
sent their robotic factories to the
solar system they they produced a bunch
of monoliths and spread them around on
the moon and on earth and on Europa and
it's just a matter of time for us to
find them and we just haven't mapped the
worlds in the solar system to a level of
resolution yet that we would notice
these things if they were if they
weren't a kilometer across in many cases
I mean ours has been pretty well mapped
in the moon but if you had something
that was a kilometer across it could
still be hiding on Europa and we
wouldn't even notice that's a pretty
good example of these but you might have
a probe coming to the solar system say
one that was loopy around the star and a
hyperbolic trajectory yeah yeah I will
not mention a that asteroid because I
always botch the definite pronunciation
of it but what do you think of that
yes yeah yeah well I mean that idea I
mean I mean of course it's rock right of
course it's a rock or of course it's in
Commodore it's um it's a smashed-up
Commodore it's a smashed-up rocker it's
a rocker it's a Commodore whatever it is
it's probably not natural but and in
fact like I said there's interesting
research that just came out that yeah
maybe it could be a it as a cross passed
the Sun got smashed up into a longer
shape that that is a debris cloud that
is rotating which giveth gives it that
more elongated shape so there's a lot of
natural explanations for what a loon
would be but just this idea that a a
rock can make the trip from from star to
star so it doesn't seem super weird that
a that some future civilizations can be
able to develop a technology to be able
to travel from from star to star you
know we can we're smarter than a rock I
think and so we can imagine some future
pulling civilization pulling this off
probably by using a rock well I was
thinking a mini people wonder on things
like this we talked about well maybe
it's a solo sail what shape it is and I
was thinking back to New Year's we will
watch an Ultima fuel getting a little
bit bigger on the screen going from one
pixel to two pixels
yeah and folks will wonder why don't you
guys just take a look at it why can't we
see it better and it's so hard to
explain you know why why can't we get a
better photograph of these things yeah
well I mean and like Oh mimosa is a
great example of this like it's coming
in at a at such a fast velocity that it
is on an escape trajectory back out of
the solar system it is not here to stay
and that velocity is theoretically
possible for us to achieve with some of
the fastest spacecraft that we have when
you look at the delta 4 heavy that
carried the parker solar probe to the
sun which is the hardest place to reach
in the solar system or the Falcon Heavy
that's in you know that has already
launched no you if you put a teeny tiny
probe on top of a Falcon Heavy you could
probably catch up with we
oh mama but it would take several years
and every month that goes by it adds
years to the to the time you actually
meet up with it and if we but it's
entirely possible that we can start
constructing the probe today be done
within two years say launch it on a
Falcon Heavy or a delta 4 heavy and
catch up although mobile and say 10 to
15 years and take close-up pictures and
study it and analyze it and because it's
still it's gonna be going through the
solar system for the next 10,000 years
still even though it's going so fast so
it's always the one of those questions
of how big the solar system is and we
were just talking about ago about new
horizons an Altima fuel and people say
well this one's leaving the solar system
is this and say well exactly is the edge
of the solar system all those small
little dwarf plants out there we keep
discovering on the edge of it so you
just say there was more territory out
there not just empty space so yeah I
guess you have a define edge right like
is it the heliosphere is it the Kuiper
belt is it the Oort cloud because I mean
the art club probably extends out about
50,000 astronomical units like halfway
between us and and Alpha Centauri so
solar system is actually pretty big and
we have yet to even Kellogg a small
portion ease which is why it's so you
know we're lucky if we were very lucky
to have found that asteroids that came
into our system but we did that because
it was being so close to our own Sun and
yellows to the earth an awful lot of
these these smaller asteroids you know
that we really can't see that well we
can only assume is like one pixel when
people get supplies they find out that
these aren't always being discovered by
these giant universities and Zillah toys
but often taking place in someone's
backyard always happen yeah I mean space
is big and even just the amount of
degrees in the sky across the entire sky
that we can see it's a huge area to
resolve at a high level of detail and so
a lot of amateurs are able to really
contribute to the field of astronomy by
pointing their telescopes up into the
sky and analyzing a tiny
you'll spot in space night after night
after night looking at different areas
and a lot can discover asteroids and
find supernovae and confirm and you can
you can find exoplanets for
gravitational microlensing events so
it's quite amazing how how kind of like
how undiscovered space really is we know
where all the stars are we know where
all the permanent objects are but to
find the things that change the really
exciting stuff that's a constant job and
a lot of people are able to participate
in it if folks were interested in
getting started on trying to do that
themselves so they presumably need to do
something a little bit more upgrade than
just go to the store and buying a
telescope for a hobbyist right
well it depends on what you want to do
so like some like finding exoplanets
using either if you if you want to
confirm transiting exoplanets you don't
need that big of a telescope an 8 inch 6
inch telescope an 8 inch telescope you'd
have a nice camera attached to your
telescope so you can do photometry you
can you can measure the brightness of
the stars they over times you can
confirm that the planet is there with
these gravitational microlensing events
same thing fairly small telescope you
just need to be able to have a nice
camera attached to it that you can
confirm a light curve that you're that
you're seeing I'd be even if I didn't
the they thought had come into my head
he thinks I was looking for the book
that you recently wrote with David
Dickinson on basically how to get used
to doing astronomy at home and one of my
favorite bits in there is how to build
your own 500 although Observatory in
your backyard and yeah so I was flipping
through it all yesterday and we pop that
up here real quick so people would see
it there you go and oh there we go
and it is surprising cuz you know I got
my start doing astronomy at a local
observatory that we gotten which was
fairly useless in Ohio to be honest but
it was very nice telescope and I was one
stuck doing the the shows for people on
fire and was open to the public so my
base fund was rotating a dome on people
and the dog saved because something
jump and be scaled but it is just
amazing how much just in the last last
20 30 years it's gotten so much easier
to do top quality astronomy is that kind
of why you got into buying that book or
yeah well I mean I think that that a lot
of the material that was out there was
sort of stuck in the past that that a
lot of the you know people see this
astronomy is this sort of solo thing
where you go and you go to the store and
you buy a telescope and you take it
outside and you look through it and you
see some stuff and then you put it in
the closet and it collects dust and and
there are so many things that you can
observe now and so many great tools and
and techniques that you can that you can
use that we wanted to bring a lot of
that modern thinking into into what we
did like even with all the photographs
all of the photographs in the book are
done by amateurs we reached out I mean
you know it's very easy to get access to
Hubble Space Telescope pictures I'm sure
you use them for your videos but not
everybody has access to a Hubble Space
Telescope in their backyard and so we
wanted to show what a regular person
with skill and technique can pull off
and so we've got shots of all the
planets we've got shots of the
International Space Station that that
one astronomer was able to capture the
Sun the moon and then of course all
these wonderful deep sky objects and
long-exposure
stuff and it and wanted to try and make
this hobby so accessible and help people
give people those first steps they need
to take to be able to to to get as hobby
seriously and it's a I like astronomy I
mean I love us trying to just you know I
love looking through a telescope I'm
always thrilled when I can see Saturn or
Jupiter or the moon it's just it always
blows your mind and I love to be there
when you show it to another person and
I'm sure you got that when you were
working the observatory and you're like
okay let's put it at Saturn and then
people looking through the like no way
that Saturn is so much different to
seeing them you know light to the Lions
the first time as opposed you know we
get so many great artistic renderings in
the photographs there really is a big
difference doing in poor
and I think we will tell people there's
a lot you can do with amateur astronomy
and you know you could discover an
exoplanet asteroid but I think they
sometimes assume that's a real Lucky
Strike whereas if you're actually doing
this for the halfway decent damage or
telescope you all going to find one of
these things it's not a large chance
it's a it's practically a guarantee
build up your skills learn the
techniques and then just put in the time
and be out there on a regular basis and
you will find them there's a supernova
hunter out of out of Australia who's
with a lot of found hundreds of
supernovae he just he knows his galaxies
he takes his telescope out every night
and it just keeps scanning all of these
galaxies that he knows waiting to see
one pop of the supernova and it's just a
matter of time we discovered a supernova
in one of our virtual star parties by
accident we didn't realize that we had a
supernova and our and our one of the
people who was in the star party with us
said oh that galaxy often has supernovae
in it doesn't have one right now and
then of course what do you know it did
and then the next morning it was
announced supernova had been discovered
and we missed it but it was in we have a
picture of the supernova and we were
able to provide to the scientists our
images of it but it's kind of amazing to
think that that yeah they that regular
people just with some time and patience
and skill can can contribute to the
science and be a part of this of course
usually we mean visual telescopes as
opposed to ones in different frequencies
but do you ever see that becoming a big
amateur area infrared or radio
telescopes well I mean it's tough like a
radio telescope is a different creature
and the problem for most like if you
build a rated you can absolutely build a
radio telescope you can turn a radio
like an old satellite dish into a radio
telescope but it's a very I don't know
it's like when you do it it has like a
one pixel of resolution and so you're
pointing your telescope at some radio
source and you get yes there is radio
waves there and then you turn a little
to the side and you're like no there is
not radio there and you
go like oh we're getting a radio
frequency of this but you don't get
those pretty pictures and I think that
for a lot of people to be able to look
at the eyepiece look at the pictures
that are coming off the camera and go oh
yeah I see it is were think that that
needs a lot more they appear though but
I guess the do that
SETI crowdsourcing project I guess that
could be argued to kind of be radio
telescopes yeah well you're crunching
data right which is which is a much
needed assistance so for the people who
are running the city at home and and the
BOINC project if you wonder if you're
helping your totally helping it's way
too much data they pull out terabytes
and terabytes of data on a fairly short
observing run and then they just need
people's help combing through all that
data to search for anything they can
find come to think of it wasn't
tapi star we were talking about mega
structure wasn't a beast on when we go
wasn't that how they grabbed that one as
well
amateur wasn't picked up from the day
yeah yeah yeah so I think there was done
through galaxies you I think and it's
the situation where you've got amateurs
scanning through tons and tons of
photographs and data the kinds of
projects that computers are really bad
at and they're finding these weird
things and then they they pass these
along to the scientists or like I found
a weird thing what is it and then the
scientists have a chance to to look at
it and try to categorize it and tabby
star was so weird
that a lot of scientists jumped on to it
and have been are continuing to puzzle
it I would even now I guess that anomaly
hunting is probably pretty much
describes most science going back I
would say pappad Galileo was Louis
supplies and we got zoomed it on set or
and saw that we were little things
sticking off the side of it yeah yeah
exactly it's this funny
it's was it was an Asimov who said you
know the most interesting thing that you
can hear a scientist say or you know is
like that's funny that's weird right
like that's what you wanted that's when
you know you're onto a real scientific
discovery when you know that when you
look at and say what was it that I can't
do yes yeah this is unexpected
yeah absolutely
but I guess we have you know we
certainly have these projects that are
deliberately looking for things we are
promoting the James Webb telescope never
quite launching a little bit ago what
would you see after this next upcoming
generation of telescopes what would you
see is the the best area to concentrate
to in terms of these big o telescopes
that we do as massive projects well that
I mean we are right around the corner
from three gigantic telescopes that are
under construction just on the on the
ground well for the first one it's gonna
come online is the large synoptic survey
telescope and this is a telescope that's
going to be scanning the night sky night
after night after night very quickly and
it's the machine that's gonna be doing
things like finding those asteroids
those comets those supernovae and weird
things that space does when we're not
looking and that's due for first light
in just a couple of years now so we're
really just around the corner from that
and that's gonna be down in Chile
there's going to be the giant Magellan
telescope which is gonna be I believe a
30 20 28 meter telescope I forget the
exact size and then there's the thirty
meter telescope which is gonna be built
in in Hawaii and then the monstrous one
of them all is gonna be the extremely
large telescope which is the sequel to
the Very Large Telescope which is the
European Southern Observatory and it's
gonna be 39 meters and it will have the
resolution to image again to directly
image the atmospheres of planets
orbiting other stars that that we will
have on the ground a telescope capable
of doing this kind of stuff that that
will match and exceed the power of the
best space telescopes that we've that we
have right now and into the foreseeable
future so I think just something but
then in space we've got a bunch of
gigantic telescopes coming there we've
got W first which is gonna be sort of
like Hubble but it's going to be going
from it's gonna be a lot faster a much
wider field of view and again looking
for things that are changing course
James Webb which were launched in the
year 8000 and then there's a bunch of
next-generation telescopes that are in
dinner in the thought process right now
the best of these the one that I really
want to happen is Lavar the large
ultraviolet infrared Observatory which
is gonna be a 15 to 18 meter Space
Telescope it's sort of at the very limit
of what can be launched by a an SLS with
a full block to upgrade or the other
idea is to launch it in pieces and
assemble it add some in some space
station and when you think like the
biggest telescopes on earth today you
know maybe you've got like the what
about an 11 meter telescope or ten point
four meter telescope this way Subaru
yeah the grand Carina of the the one on
the Canary Islands and then you've got
the Very Large Telescope is four
separate eight point four meter
telescopes and then I mentioned these
these next-generation ones that are
coming this is gonna be of that same
scale but in space and so it's gonna be
able to do things like it's just you
know and it'll be this wide spectrum
like Hubble like Hubble is this really
special instrument because it does from
ultraviolet through to infrared and
through the visual spectrum the visible
light and so James Webb is is a
completely different spectrum it's
looking at really cold objects and if
when Hubble goes we won't have a tells a
Space Telescope that's in that same
field and that's what leVoir is gonna do
is be there and I you know had a chance
to chat with one of the researchers with
levar and one of the things that he said
is like again it will be able to image
the atmospheres of planets going around
other stars and it will be able to look
with such sensitivity to such a distance
to tell us with about a 90% accuracy
whether we're alone in the Milky Way
like you just you know you don't see any
life on all these planets and all these
stars to this far of us of a sphere
around us and then you go and we're
probably alone or you know how how much
life there is you can measure it
so you think we'd inside 20 years we
might have an answer at the Fermi
paradox or is it probably still a little
bit too much I think yeah yeah yeah I
think so I think we've got enough we've
got enough interesting things going on
when you think
what's happening here in the solar
system with the exploration of Mars and
the potential missions going to Europa
and Enceladus Titan all these places
that where you would expect to find life
if there is life in the solar system
these are the places you'll find and
then you've got the all the work that's
being done on SETI searching for techno
signatures from radio to laser to
transits to infrared looking for type 3
civilizations etc etc and then you've
got the the work in infrared and optical
analysing looking for bio signatures
that is like a full court press that
they are there trying to find evidence
of life across every method that's
available to them and I think that yeah
I think we will have an answer I mean
obviously you can never you know you
can't prove a negative right but at a
certain point you can say we've scoured
the solar system and we found nothing
we've scoured our local sphere of the
Milky Way and we found nothing
we've analyzed to our satisfaction every
single galaxy that we can get our eyes
on and we haven't seen any evidence that
if there's a type 3 civilization out
there we have scanned the Milky Way and
we don't see any Dyson spheres we are
looking for transiting mega structures
and we haven't found anything I think at
that point the the harsh reality that we
are alone in the Milky Way which become
more and more of a central idea and then
as we talked about in the beginning then
the responsibility is on us to to take
care of this planet and to make sure
that we are shot to help spread life out
into the universe
I guess I'll ask for we on that fund
people I say the moon or mall was or
maybe Venus fullest phrase okay which
one would you go for forest unlimited
much ever none none of those none of the
above
I always say that gravity wells are for
suckers and so you know you if you've go
to all that energy to get out of a
gravity well don't
- another gravity well right there just
there traps so I think the the best
thing that we'll be able to do is learn
to live in space itself like I think we
will absolutely go and set foot on the
moon and kick a couple of rocks around
and and see what we can find we will
absolutely do some exploration on Mars
and probably in Venus as well but I
think the heavy lifting of space
exploration is gonna be the asteroids
that we're gonna go we're going to drill
into them we're gonna build habitats
we're gonna spin them up we're gonna use
the resources of because they're there
gravity wells are so low they're really
easy to shift resources around from from
world to world and I actually really
think that that when we get really
excited about just the kinds of launch
platforms that are coming around right
now we think about the Falcon heavies
and we think about the this this the
super-heavy and the starship which I'm
still trying to wrap my head around
saying this is this comes from this
mindset that we're gonna want to launch
a bunch of stuff from Earth but the
reality is of course 20 years 30 years
40 years from now we will have the
infrastructure in space to harvest the
resources that we need to make whatever
we want in space there will be no need
to launch anything from Earth like the
only reason you'll have tiny rockets
that will launch just us it's the meat
into space and then you'll go up to the
space station and then you're gonna and
then the the the robots will be arriving
with the 3d printed space station
trusses and stuff that have come from
mining the asteroids like I really think
that that we're in this tiny phase of
our space exploration efforts where we
think that it's important too that we're
going to need to launch a lot of stuff
from Earth eventually we won't need to
launch anything from Earth apart from us
on our tourist flights so no I wouldn't
go to any of them I wouldn't I don't
think any of them are our long-term
viable places you know Venus is the
worst right obviously and you know what
does it have going for it
it has earth-gravity and obviously if
you fly around in your floating Cloud
City then you get to have earth
temperature and earth pressure but you
also still have to breathe um you're
gonna need towed about a sea of ass
again
it rains sulfuric acid and so on right
so it's not great there's no place to
stand
Mars is dry and cold and almost airless
and the radiation is intense and so and
we don't know what low gravity is gonna
do to the human body over the long time
in over multiple generations we don't it
could be a crime against humanity to let
people give birth on the Moon or Mars
and the moon could be even worse with
even less resources and even less
gravity and and even harsher radiation
that's coming to it from space so I
think all of them are poor compared to
us being able to take an asteroid spin
it up live inside get the kind of
gravity that you want have the
protection from radiation had access to
resources and the Delta visas that you
need to move stuff around the solar
system is is fairly low so that's a
month you know none of none of the above
let's let's just go to space itself I
like the comparison there with uh you
know going from more basically one bad
relationship to another when you leave
in the gravity well and just jump you
into another one yeah don't go don't go
to another day you did it you made it
you escaped a gravity well Stan
planetary counseling and so of course
the option do is you start Holocene or
those asteroids up to build yourself a
k2 or Dyson's for your civilization one
of the many great episodes on universe
today of course being that collaboration
we did discuss in our show two
civilizations and of course the other
one we had on colonizing the solar
system quite some time back so if you
haven't already checked out Fraser
Cain's channel our universe today or the
publication you will stay or the book
they're all going to be links for them
below in the video description and of
course he was good enough to join us on
this channel but on his channel he
regularly review some of the top minds
of our profession so make sure to check
them out and
real glad to have had you here today and
we will see you on Thursday anytime
anytime you won't do anything guys you
let me know I'm on board thanks for
having me
[Music]
you
