welcome to our August monthly livestream
we will be getting started in just a
moment so if you've got questions go
ahead and stop putting those in the chat
window so I in the Mario's can pour them
out welcome to our August monthly live
we don't get to them every you install
just a moment you leave down go ahead
and stop for a push so I - fi dis over
through August month leave I go ahead
and snow so I am i dis oversaw Argus
monthly sorry about that I forgot Tony
audio out my mind of things interesting
sidenote
it's where you start things off there's
always some glitch all the time and
you're like listen your radio show is
always this lag time and they always
tell people turn off your radio when
you're talking so when you're just
listen on your phone so otherwise you
have this large lag and echo going on
anyway welcome to this show and
hopefully that will be only glitch for
today and we'll go ahead and start with
questions I know miss Casio ask could
global warming man-made or natural
change Planet Earth into a place
requiring space-age technology just to
survive I'm thinking no breathable
atmosphere or high radiation etc by the
way syndra can you check real quick and
just confirm that the audio is not
looping anymore echoing that I actually
got that fixed on mind real quick just
put in the text okay um
in regard to global warming just in
general with any time you're dealing
with the possibility of warming the
atmosphere up by changing the chemical
properties of it it's not just carbon
dioxide they could do things like that
in fact carbon dioxide actually all that
could have a greenhouse gas either a
bunch of other ones we actually talked
about using on for tail for me and we'll
actually talk about some of those more
for episode on Mars in a couple weeks
and also for Venus and we'll discuss
some of the ways to cool plant down on
the episode winter on Venus which i
think is an tobor but just in general I
would say anytime you're trying to go
for with the high-tech industrialized
civilization if you want to be able to
use all that energy up and do all that
automation
the cool things and keep a large
population yeah you're gonna need to
start talking about the the flux of
light gets the planet you're going to
need to know how to control your weather
and things like that if you can and you
know fundamentally almost all of our
light comes from the Sun almost almost
all the energy comes from the Sun right
now
you'd have a tiny amount of it from the
moon not so much a reflection but the
tidal force degenerates on the earth and
from some nuclear K in the core but
almost all bits from the Sun right now
if we ever get something like fusion or
we get things like power satellites to
take advantage of the sun's fusion then
we're going to need to be able to start
dealing with potential large influx of
heat now as to actually blowing our own
atmosphere off that one's really not in
the cards um and in fact in we know
obvious we talk about how much energy
need to blow the atmosphere are for
planets and it is more for Venus than
this for all but not so than you do on
accident and not sort of think you could
actually get done while that planet was
still livable either way you'd end up
dying before you could have actually get
to the point
nah yeah mister you're off um actually
the same thing for getting ready oceans
there's a book series actually is 40k
they talk about how or thin the forty
thousand or 40,000 doesn't have in the
oceans left because they all got blown
off into space said well maybe they
export them outer space collie habitats
their own local area or they just slowly
use the water up for you know fuel but
no you know no you don't new the planet
so all the oceans blow off unless you
utterly sterilize that planet so
thoroughly that not even micro micro
could could live all right let's go to
our next question Dave Brown ass all the
peoples of people was of our eyes like
black holes as in all the lights and
therefore information is kept not
reflected they just interested you know
you'd actually have to ask an
optometrist exactly with a wavelength
saw that we absorb and I should never
see an optometrist funny story about
that um but I managed to bang my glasses
with an assault rifle yesterday very
strange the way um but you do not have
total reflection or absorption on your
eyeballs you want me to see you eyeballs
if you
you know totally absorbed there you want
me to see the pupils which all black in
the visible range but I do not think
they are in the infrared or even I said
the UV range you got to check that
though very few things I'll totally
reflective across all you know with a
wide gap of wavelengths and very feeding
so Tony absorptive I though something
that is actually completely absorptive
is what we call black by a perfect black
body and things like stars for instance
all of actual black body is they have an
amid a lot of life but they they absorb
pretty much everything that hits them
but you do obviously absorb a lot into
the the cones of your eyes and the rods
of your eyes and then more than just a
general matter since other things are
absorbing them they're not just
transmitting in the information to your
brain but now I wouldn't think they'd be
completely reflective but again you'd
have to actually check what the I'm sure
somebody's measured what the
reflectivity of I was all of the various
wavelengths all right it's next question
quartz Watson ass
what kind of forced Ward problems do you
think people will be complaining about
in the future no it's the problem with
trying to anticipate when we say
something like that what we mean is
things that we wouldn't think of as a
problem 50 years ago and probably think
of somebody's kind of whiny for even
worrying about at that time you're and
almost everybody to predict those the
whole point of this that we don't think
of them as problems now and they kind of
emerges that and some can be kind of
silly and suddenly phrase kind of silly
others actually can be a lot more work
and so on you know I don't think it's
going where we call it forced world
problem though with the developed
nations probably forced and hardest is
we soak any automation that starts
cutting into not just manufacturing
which is already problematic but we
start getting into a lot of the office
jobs there are a lot of things that we
automate in the office and we've been
doing that you know for a long time
anyway slowly are between what people
actually do in terms of their walk look
at an office so that more and more bits
automated like you're not gonna find the
editors next you spell-checking much
these days nobody actually walks on a
physical spreadsheet but I would
probably say in the kind of
post-scarcity sense which I don't know
if you call that force for maybe 0th
world problems
boredom purpose those are the ones we
used to talk about and it was scarcely
episode and of course the big one being
privacy and I don't think that one
recently most of us would think of I
don't think any of us would think of any
of those three has been you know
illegitimate problems um you know you if
you have nothing to do with your life or
if you you know which is a past video if
you you lack a purpose or if you feel
your privacy is being invaded and you
live in a fish tank then yeah you know
those are kind of problems I think we'll
have to deal with most in the near
future and well the near future in the
next couple of centuries and if we
haven't figured out by then then we got
long term issues so let's see perfectly
anime asks you say always to the for me
paradox solutions not everyone does that
but couldn't different Sims have
different reasons to not expand or even
different groups inside the same sieve
absolutely I mean one of the reasons why
we always talk about exclusivity as an
issue that the whole idea there that not
everyone does that is because um you're
kind of biological default and you would
expect this in any any system that men
on Darwinian evolution which presumably
is almost you know anyone that actually
a cause is to try to expand and
reproduce and you know growing it to use
more resources and live that off and you
need a good reason why they're not doing
that if they can and if they can't be
too hard you know I don't think
colonizing other planets ever gonna be
the easiest in the world or colonizing
in the solar system because the focus
really is non planets but at the same
hand you have to find a reason why
nobody is doing that in that
civilization or any of the other
civilizations so you could have hundreds
of reasons why they don't leave off and
you know me them do sound good because
they're going to apply most time
somebody says well Isaac would you like
to go karna it's not a plan I say no no
no I don't want to I mean maybe if I had
a bill you just make a duplicate of
myself we you know do that and flip a
coin to see who went on the journey and
who stay behind but I've noticed our
leave or um and I don't think most
people do but you're always gonna have a
lot of folks who do want to you know
while colonization pioneering things all
really run by you know
most people feel like doing if they have
a choice in it it's but there's always
number of people either if you're forced
in the past or just kind of driven to do
it and I mean I would argue that's
probably a pretty fundamental
psychological thing to humans and
probably almost any species that we
following that path is to kind of wanna
go leave the tribe and set up your own
new tribe where everyone's got a new
your new Iwaki to populate is a war um
let's see that's probably they cute and
uh you know water your wanderlust that
uh you know where we turn have built
into us and a lot of members have built
into them that vulture asks how big does
a fellow youtube channel have to be for
you to consider a collab huh I don't
have a set number and I actually
generally do not look I'll go watch a
few episodes of y'all you know peek in
and take a look at them and suggest so
if I see a channel I like to look of but
just in general I don't like to look at
more the quality of it I probably
wouldn't expect them to be at least in
thousands I had to do a collab but it's
more that I would want them to have you
know if I'm doing a Claire was someone
that I had to be feel really inspired
when I walk with them why I feel like
the audience is gonna really enjoy their
show and if they only got a couple
episodes out then I'm not sending my
audience over to see much yeah so I'm
gonna tell them you know come on back
when you've got more episodes and ask me
then but there's no real size limit um I
do
probably more collabs with channels
smaller than mine than bigger than mine
and I think probably only people had
done class where they were bigger war
curious droid and Cody's lab and you
know it's it's YouTube was in the
science game actually a lot of fun to
work with in general so that's that's a
big majority of it but so long as I feel
like the channel is offering something
to my eyes gonna enjoy and then it's a
good amount of that content and and
there's a basis for these in collab on
the topic then yeah I'm gonna do
something with them it's not a big deal
how big their channel is um let's see
black phantom ass hi Isaac
I know you're more optimistic but do you
think humanity could go extinct in the
near future or do you think it's rather
unlikely I think it's very unlikely that
we'd actually go extinct
with the exception of a successful kind
of case as we say in funny paradox
apocalypse so is the the idea isn't that
an AI might not kill us all off
that's possibility oh that's um you know
genetically augmented or modified humans
or sidewalks might not kill us all off
is that for me from a paradox standpoint
it doesn't matter because you just
replace them with something that's also
smart and aggressive and you know let me
say aggressive I mean expansionist they
want to get out there and do stuff not I
said their violence um though if they
wiped everybody out that's probably the
case but I mean nasty humanity going
extinct again a lot of that depends on
what you mean by going extinct I think
do we though did an episode on that
recently oh I have one coming up soon on
that subject of you know what what what
you really would afford to as humans
with would still be around in you know a
few centuries even or you know a million
years and there are things you can do to
specifically maintain the core human
template you can prevent mutation if you
can do mutation intentionally so but I
think that you just going to see humans
can diversify off from each other in the
future in terms of a million different
types of click you know subcategories
and there's no guarantee of that but one
could argue at that point in time that
classic human is a war extinct but I
don't I don't know that I call that
extinct that's like saying that you've
got extinct because your kids survived
and they're not the same as you whether
or not the same as you every generation
mento is the previous one extinct so
unless a very sharp type of you know
extinction then anything of these really
gradual ones I think definitely
qualifies but it's possible I just don't
see it having to be honest I don't see
us getting wiped out a way that
sterilized the planet Kobe Smith asks is
there any way SIVs could survive past
the last black hole evaporating you know
even we get to the point of talking
about supermassive black holes
evaporating icefield wiser stress that
works on people you have to find some
way to make a structure that's going to
survive all that time sitting off the
most tiny amounts of energy and I think
it's a nice big boost of energy towards
the end as this as the black hole starts
to to of
we didn't get you know much hotter who's
much more energy but Ohio installs
episode I was gonna say dinosaurs
episode specifically looks at that but
the kind of the idea behind the IO
install is that does eventually collapse
into a black hole some ridiculous period
of time down the road and I do not think
that that that context I don't think I'm
thinking that we could use sized black
holes that would still be around after
all the black holes including the ones
that were from my own stores had
evaporated outside of that kind of
bossman reset of us are pouring key or
reset like we talked about in Boston
brains and sending of episodes we talked
about a non expanding universe a stay
stayed in your voice but I just you know
shuffle so many times an event she gets
back to a reset
you know entropy in a truly closed
system it eventually caused a reset of
the process all even and we said like
that
you shuffle what I could call is enough
times it will come back the original
order it's just the number of times the
shuffle is ridiculously huge Gordon
Desmond asks will you ever do a time
travel episode we did do a time travel
up so that was the FTL series from way
back in year 2 episode 2 was tachyons on
time travel and then we looked at a
little bit more in the was the wormhole
was episode of the yeah we're on the
wormholes episode that was FTL episode 4
but we might do an episode more
specifically on time travel the FTL
series is one of those ones where I'm
particularly inclined to wanna redo it
because it was very badly produced in my
line and there's more I can say on all
those things so um but usually I want me
do an episode in less life yeah like I
you know if there's another episode that
is calling out to me to do written out
talk we haven't done before that's gonna
take priority over doing a redo or
expansion usually you know not X
engineer is will you do a rigorous look
on the great filter like making
everything not 50/50
can we actually have another great
filter episode I coming up that I just
finished writing the draft for it'll be
early November mid November um no only
November and actually no it's gonna come
out on Halloween those days October 31st
but we haven't gone back that series
about two years not happy time to kind
of fold it up and we're gonna do radio
technology as topping set up we done
available space and time bio
intelligence now my new radio technology
but the problem we're doing like the
less of photos once we say our 50/50 is
those were almost all things but we just
don't know what the answer is there's a
few of the things in Drake's equation or
components of the actual variables if
you break it down more then we can put a
pretty decent number to these days and
better than we could say 20 years ago or
30 years ago in terms like exoplanets
and metallicity stars and you know with
with a more time we might be able to
narrow those down more but many of these
it's gonna be a long time before you
ever say something is 47% it's at a 50
or 53 or whatever or even one in 10 in
you know there's such a huge motor rail
that we talk about in terms of it being
50/50 just because it keeps the math
easy to show how you can take 50 factors
and say 2 to the 50th which is about a
quadrillion which about how many stars
we think would be in the volume of space
we could plausibly have expected to see
life arise and and still have gotten
light from it you know somebody 3
billion light years away that about 2.9
billion years ago to be an eclectic
civilization we can't see them yet and
you can see some point you say well the
universe would just be too young for
life to have emerged then in a
sophisticated way and you could say well
maybe not but then if it was that it was
able to you know arise even that only
then that's all the more reason to think
the universe we chart for life because
you know if something could randomly
evolved 4 billion years in the universe
or 4 billion years ago then that should
have happened a bunch more times Thank
You kaga news came games play how do you
think Lyons's will evolve as humanity on
his outward creoles language families
etc etc you know that is a such a tricky
one I think that you would generally
tend to converge to having a set
language that was the lingua franca or
not the only language I don't think but
the lingua franca for any given system
and but not for planets and I
you necessarily have the same ones on
other solar systems we were talking
about like a galactic humanity you'd
probably would have some really ancient
language that almost nobody actually
used used that was in everybody's
computer banks that they do some
scholars updated to their system to make
sure it matched up so that all the ships
and plants could talk to each other but
I you know I don't I don't really see a
really connected society going to branch
out to having more languages that would
their main language they used at the
same time I don't think people would
really let go their language and another
thing that's the best idea
yes comes up with language a lot they
are thinking advantages to being
bilingual you've just a little bit
bilingual and there are concepts don't
express the same in other languages
they're they don't have a direct
translation they're not concepts that
can't translate in the other language
but they knew no not that one wor with
all that meaning you know euphemisms
things like that do not translate what
was it on but kind of same thing that
applies with like foundation of
measurement systems why I always
complain about the metric system metric
systems very good system S is better but
same thing really as systems go but when
you only use one system you you tend to
introduce a lot of thinking limitations
and problems and so I'm not really a
huge you know huge one for pushing for
more standardization of our system units
you know I don't really want to over for
to the distance to Alpha Centauri in
Giga meters or Tara videos instead of
light-years and there's kind of
naturally it's a lot easier to walk with
and say something like well why are you
always this ships in terms their tonnage
or how many aircraft carriers they all
say well because people know how they
can aircraft carrier is they can picture
that and wrap their head around it
quickly and I just tell them how many
kilograms ways or you know it's it's
it's you know valium in cubic meters
people or not your cubic feet for that
matter people not really absorbing it
the same way oh let's see
scientifically literate ask though many
say it's impossible due to the
square-cube law do you think a
skyscraper sized Godzilla like super
species Kai's you could be created in
the future with advanced future
technologies
once you start actually breaking out of
natural evolution there's a lot of stuff
you could do you could get things you
know we buildings that big so yes you we
have machinery that big in fact I've
seen some gigantic cranes I don't know
that you would ever have any particular
reason to want to do that it seems
almost like you're trying to get away
something much bigger you start doing
more of a distributed network well it
had its brain possibly moving around or
a set of stationary locations and lots
of little drones controlled by Y or you
know instead of having one big body you
have several kind of connected bodies
but yeah I mean there are all materials
that could be involved in organic or
quasi organic processes that would let
you get away with building something
that big but you wouldn't expect
something other to have that evolved
naturally on a kind of like earth low
gravity may be a little bit different
though you start having issues but
couldn't even get enough a or could
cover enough distance to feed itself you
know because it's gonna have a rising
energy cost and they're all advantages
the size and imagine being much smaller
too so it kind of varies and actually
can vary a lot based on whether what the
current uh climb of the planet is the
ecology the planet and what the corn
predator-prey cycles look like to fire
dragon asks do you think certain
government systems will be more
advantageous or appealing in an advanced
civilization hmm no you know it kind of
depends what you mean by advanced there
are a lot of different governmental
systems people to not even even remember
to think about like people argue
sometimes the United States are we a
democracy over a public and that these
two are not the least bit exclusion it's
like asking is that apple red or shiny
it's it's not the same thing there's a
lil bit of overlap and the forget that
were actually a cry talkie to cry talk
right Auggie is where you have rule by
judges and of course the third branch of
government the judicial branch that you
know whether it's elected or whether
that's appointed positions and like in
Ohio we elect our judges but the federal
level we appoint them some states point
to that's a cry talking but it doesn't
prevent you from being democracy you
know saying you could all be that we or
GEOINT acqua see like we will by the
elderly as we do almost always you know
not
officially but unofficially and
unofficial was just important when you
get around to it tend to perform folk so
oughta win in positions of power so you
know you've got even they were like six
or seven primary systems we pretended to
favor you know as both the official and
unofficial ones there are so many
different combinations of those and you
know in terms of both which ones you use
the most and which one is your primary
official one and you know you 20% one
and and 15% another or you 21% and 14%
of those two and so that produces an
almost infinite diversity of potential
options and I think the one that you
always had that mix of tradition local
usage whose screw things up like if you
have a very good system but you end up
you know throwing the dice bad and give
me a really bad lead or a very bad
system like you up a motto so I
shouldn't say in Minooka is a bad system
but if you have an absolute monarchy and
you have a really really good King and
then you have another really really good
one following him up for a couple
generations like that then people gonna
think
well that system whereas in another
place they might be all for democracy
but you know elect a series of very
corrupt or bad folks in there and get a
negative view of it so in fact was like
they're just gonna be too huge of a
thing in that to really be able to say
this is the system that's gonna get
forward and we'll find out in the future
maybe someone get really really good at
sociology in terms of us as a you know
very predictable science people say this
is the best one but I don't see that
when on the radar anytime soon I tend to
think in the future you just have a more
and more branching off and more and more
variations possibly even some new
systems getting discovered you know it's
always room to add more they are like a
million aqua sea is an all key types out
there
QB amass question do you think space
colonization will be mostly planet bases
or overall habitats
Oh Pro habitats in not just because you
know they are they have certain
advantages of what try and tear form and
it's how a planet but the simple app
that you can make so many more of them
any medium-sized asteroid you never even
consider trying a tail form in a classic
sense can be toned into you know a
number of habitats with a very simple
living area
- that big horde planet and there was
always to be a lot more medium-sized
asteroids in planning system thank you
Andy Smith healing radiation healing ray
is like install track total BS so even
remotely possible also Congrats on 200
episodes I hope there will be two
thousand more I hope so too
Oh actually I'm not sure mm webisodes
would take us what 40 years and I'd be
quite happy to be so doing this and in
40 years when I will be about some other
age but one would think that things
would change a lot right now then you
know so and maybe I'll ostrich or do
something else who knows but right now
I'm loving this so it's great as to you
know just being a beam healing energy of
someone it's really popular in in sci-fi
in TV shows and movies and I think power
that is just because it's it's very fast
way of showing something meeting you
know they can do very easy on special
effects they put down the the damaged
area that you know that's been makeup
down of a cup and they you know shine a
bright light on it and they can do a
quick cut tape pull it off and on shine
the light on you know look it's gone
special effects have a tendency to of to
auto but all of you what is possible
likely asked me now to do that and now
now I mean you should be on do some
stuff with magnetic and electric fields
that would help to some degree with
certain types of things you know like
there's iron in your blood making a
clotting that way that might be helped
with magnets oh so I gather I ask a
doctor not me I'm not a doctor but I've
never seen any any inventions that seem
like they do that anything like what you
see with the Star Trek you know no
heroes they were over people
Tommy vas asks how important is the tool
to a plant's access to life as we know
it
very important is the eccentricity of
Earth's orbit beneficial in any way what
might the gory locks on be regarding
these parameters you know you're talking
to elliptical orbits you are actually
gonna change on Goldilocks own a goodly
amount because things can survive
through a you know a winter that's based
on elliptical orbits as opposed to tilt
and I have you know warmer some wasn't
survive those but if you have to
elliptical
it's gonna be parlor Matic gives you too
much more temperature variation our
earth is pretty close to so clear as
these things go there are some plans to
have a slightly more shocking orbit than
us but we're not very eccentric and it
can't cause surprise people sometimes
say well when is the earth closest to
the Sun and probably inspires people
from the southern hemisphere it's
actually in January we were close to the
Sun and hardest as a planet in January
very little all seasonal variation comes
from that distance and the light follows
off is the inverse square so if you are
twice far away you're getting a quarter
of the light and we don't get anything
near that that would be an issue here
that much for ellipse the tilt is the
biggest one and you know if you don't
have a uni tilt your planet I don't
think that it would prevent life arising
but would certainly have a huge factor
on our life our life is very built
around a kind of a famine feast approach
an annual schedule everything breeds and
reproduces and then stores of energy
around there was winter times and of
course that's a lot more severe a lot
more noticeable and impact as you get
farther away from the equator so life as
we know it very different and you think
about some the evolutionary factors that
would kick in there too if all of a
sudden you know you hadn't had that
requirement to be good at saving up and
storing energy because crops just grew
constantly you know food just constantly
and everything was costly flowering on
bloom that's going to change your you
know your build up your psychology your
biology your physiology everything it's
a very fundamental level but not in a
way that I would think was being
exclusive to life although one could
argue challenges like storing up food
which was a big thing for Humanities
files and Tom's technology might
actually be very important to to life
evolving the complexity and
sophistication see next question then
we're going to break draught flowing ask
question do you think an increase in
available land because of space habitats
because they collapse the value of real
estate I know Earth now now quite the
contrary I would expect the party values
and all it's just keep rising
assuming we follow out to a kind of
Atlantic expansion model as we often
think about either in a space off a
sense of planets or the one we'd said
looking here which is more the color
ship to space habitats one earth is
always going to be the most valuable
real estate out there I even if you you
know turn the place into a wasteland for
somehow and then couldn't fix that it
would still be valuable cuz it's off but
you know you might see a luxury market
for habitats going up into space to be
short and that might limit some of the
luxury markets and some of the place
like the Gold Coast or the Gold Coast
Chicago not none not Africa but in
places where like you know like Martha's
Vineyard wetlands were very expensive
that might shift up to space for a while
but I think it always had the highest
real estate values on or other than an
initial phase when you know the space
habit has more complete luxury because
they work very hard for us to be a
little bit new but it's kind of even for
the metals market you see if we suddenly
find trillions of tons of gold in space
will collapse the mark and say well to
two degree it will shrink it temporarily
with a no expand because people find new
use for it now it's less scales all
right let's go ahead and go to break or
see you in a minute while we are taking
a quick break it's a good chance to get
some questions in for all moderators to
grab and forward to me have you want to
increase the odds it will get answered
and be nice to all mods try to keep it
clear and concise and wash the typos
however we won't get to every question
and normally I come back in a while
after the live stream to watch the
replay and to answer any questions left
in the comments after today's show
though we will also be heavy a discord
live chat on the SFI a discord solve all
linked in the video description though
we do ask everyone to enable the
push-to-talk option and respect everyone
else they'll which is to say if you have
already asked a question try to let
others get in they was in before ASCII
another and don't talk over top of other
people especially when they're asking a
question or I'm trying to apply to it
you can also stick questions and replies
in the text channel attached to the
audio chat again though please remember
to go into your settings on discord and
change them to the push-to-talk before
joining the conversation
also we bought out some more SFI a
motion dice to join our mugs t-shirts
and tote bags by popular demand we've
added some hats and you can find those
at our website
Isak althought net on the merchandise
tab next to the donate tab and of course
you're welcome to click on that donate
tab to to help support the show or click
over to our books tab to see any of the
mini novel as we recommended over the
years I also want to take a quick moment
to congratulate my dear friends Jason
and Christina on their wedding yesterday
Jason and I met about a month after we
both got back from Soviet I back a
decade back and he's become one of my
closest friends since and while he's
never shown up in our credit wall he is
one of my original sounding boards for
the show and one of those guys I wish we
could clone because everyone could use a
friend like him sadly he's one of a kind
and so is Christina and I'm so glad they
found each other because you'd had to
search kneel and fall to find two kinda
and more loyal people and I count myself
very lucky to know them both and I hope
you'll join me in wishing them all the
best in their journey together
and now back to the show okay I'm gonna
back I'm gonna put my hat on I got back
from that wedding yes I was just talking
about and found the prototype and the
Mayo those are actually up on signal now
and you know the website as we mentioned
but I like it so some of you asked on
the Facebook forum we could please get
some hats and and I always keep me in to
expand our motion dies but I tend to get
you know priorities or things I always
focus on writing the episodes forced so
allowed the other administrative
expansion things which we're doing to
grow the channel get kinda left behind
and forgotten about and put on the back
burner okay Yuriko a border ass apart
from enthusiasm for science of futurism
rewriting talents what is the most
useful skill to have when making your
youtube videos when i see if i have
skill for writing talent and the
composer was very good right off hmm
what is the most useful skill to have
besides being enthusiastic at it and he
said writing it
probably being a workaholic I can't be
very time-consuming and you know you're
going to start off as a hobby you know
and it's it's gonna be very
time-consuming when it stops being a
hobby and becomes a profession too if
you do that you know you gotta really be
willing to sit down just work on stuff
for 80 hours a week things like that
most useful skill ah mm-hmm yeah I don't
know it's gonna vary so much from
channel channel um whatever it is you
gotta be yourself on this thing so we
talk about that sometimes weird chatting
with other channels um you know when
you're an actor on TV you'll pretend to
be somebody else and you're doing live
radio or podcasts or YouTube you are
yourself even in the written format
obviously the episodes are scripted but
you know that's still you doing the body
on that and that's doing you doing the
speaking and you know if you're not
trying to play to you oh and actual
strengths and trying to cover over your
own weaknesses I supposed like to put on
some kind of mask of persona you're not
gonna do very well I don't think so that
is actually what the nice things though
is almost every channel might bump into
because they're like that they're always
really fun interesting people to chat
with so one of the reasons somebody
asked really about doing collabs always
like doing collabs because they're
always really just fun people to watch
and get to know it's unholy seven asks
what do you think will be the next step
for mathematics example Newton's
Newton's introduction of calculus huh I
don't know what the next would be
probably the most important one if we
can walk with it would actually probably
be chaos theory um because there's so
many things that me not a particular
battle any whether I'll be in the
biggest obvious example if we had
accurate weather prediction not say
control they'll be able to develop
control we had accurate prediction
because we know where to nudge you know
that's one of those things where it
doesn't really get talked about with the
the economic impact quality of life
impacting them and to impact of knowing
exactly what the weather is gonna be
months out is huge I would be happy one
of those inventions purchased
fundamentally altered the landscape and
chaos theory as well as ones that really
really handy for that obviously it'd be
really handy cleaning involving
predictions of human systems you're
never gonna be able to create a
perfectly predictive system or anything
like what Asmus got for psychohistory
but short-term forecasting of a lot of
things would be very helpful
mmm humble snake oil salesman ass I'm
sure I've mentioned this before but us
have the most interesting usernames it's
actually the joke on the channel is I
almost always used a pseudonym before I
started the channel when it was on e
board a thing like that but I just was
using my own regular Gmail account to
upload random videos like a picture of a
scroll or you know well Cordia but the
raccoon it always hangs out in here and
uploading that was just my little site
that's an Isaac OAuth on my YouTube page
like anyone else has and that just
accidentally turned into a channel and
that's why the channel is actually named
that people just call calling it science
and futurism and you know so we just
science a future with Isaac although and
I've got W when I was doing the logo so
it's SFI instead of sfw hi hey that's a
mouthful anyway the humbly gross oil
humble snake oil salesman asks do you
think bio signatures were ever amount to
conclusive proof of ET or even primitive
life in other solar systems conclusive
is such a subjective term you know like
oxygen the atmosphere a high
concentration of oxygen in the
atmosphere is a very strong indicator of
it and the higher it is the more like
you say that and then mute sound zooming
on air plants you know things that would
there be more indicative of a biological
reason for the high oxygen as opposed
was something in geologic or temporary
you start finding tons of plants like
that though you know it's not temporary
it's it's something that you know you
know happens periodically everywhere
from some
non-biological Vektor it's it's you know
a really big mark or biology i I really
doubt the first time we put a satellite
in orbit around another planet or do
even a flyby of another planet which is
much easier to another plan and other
sources of me to get his life on it I
very much doubt that will be in doubt
that there's life they are there just be
confirmation at that point
I'll have to see and in terms of like we
say complex laughs of course you know
like technological life then absolutely
yeah that is one of those things where
you're not really looking for BIOS
change was at that point in time but you
may actually spot the BIOS change was
for us because our radio frequency is so
easy not to pick up if we know to look
for but a planet reflects you know
typical video signal is I'll make what
tops that is all very loud but you see
ones of course most all no way any of
that strong whether the planet gives off
about 10 to 17 so about a hundred
billion times stronger of a signal
overall in various principally you know
the spectrum it's not a discrete one but
you know you know a zone that we can see
a lot easier so it's almost always be
easy to look for those kind of st. joe´s
forest is our ask do you consider
writing fictions novels or comic books
if yes or no I'm curious about the
reason I do think about occasionally in
course policy that's because everybody
pokes me to write a book at some point
if we do write a book for the channel
and a part would be we because I'm sure
I'm calling the crew to help out with
that there were actually quite a few
very public you know good and published
authors but that helped out on the show
it would probably be a nonfiction forced
and I think by default the one that most
passed my head is do a kind of a long
you know explanation of the Fermi
paradox in book format but yeah I mean I
think about writing fiction occasionally
I love helping out on you know when
people come together video games things
like that you know what's why we got it
was a plot or things like that but I
don't think my suppose we could
character dialogue read oh and that's
not humility that's that's a fact I'm
having like bad about dialogue um and
you know I tend to feel like with a
story you die and some people work
really well with a co-op or who could
you know cover their weaknesses on
something like that but they really are
not that many writing power no ships
that turn out all that well in fact a
lot of times you see it's very
established Arthur who has a new you
know a less known author who's helping
to write the book or eg almost entirely
writes the book
and they put the big waffles name I
didn't have time to walk out as much but
you get some decent writing partnerships
margaret weis and tracy hickman would be
an example of that
but I wouldn't wanna write a fictional
novel with somebody else walking with me
on it unless they were I mean besides
the arrow obviously unless they were you
know witty well synched up with me and
and until I have you know changed and
feel like I might dialogue that or you
know really found that partner which I'm
really not looking for then I know I
would never you may be fictional books
hoping other folks have with ideas that
is something we ask you fairly regularly
and I have a increasingly large
collection of books people have you know
when credits to you know thing you know
the show for their help on it but uh and
I'm very smug about that collection but
that's about it for right now for me
involving myself in fiction let's see if
a civil is a class if a civilization
starts tall lifting from the start of
expansion could you massively extend the
galaxy's lifespan imagine manager so to
speak stall if Dean again is used for
extending lifespan stars by removing
helium and other Ohio elements that kind
of poison that fusion process so it
can't burn up all its hydrogen and so
why we like red dwarfs is because they
they are fully convective in they store
their contents and they will go through
all of their hydrogen eventually you
know take them a very very long time to
do it
whereas also and we'll brought up like
about a tenth of its naturally before it
goes red giant and dies and the more
massive stars is even even less
percentage and by a star lifting them
you can almost make them light or two so
they they are fusing you know cool or
and and [ __ ] is result so you can
really enhance the lifespan a star by
removing those elements and of course
those heavier elements can also be
really handy for construction I don't
know what you do with helium besides
just using it as dumbass to uh you know
like make an artificial planet with
natural gravity or use a shielding you
know um sticking the core of a shell and
use it for gravity or stick it in the
our superstructure of a rotating habitat
as radiation shielding and that's the
only things are going to be with helium
but you get further out that chain of
things like carbon a I'm so you can
always find a use for stuff like that
there is far more construction material
in the Sun in terms of heavier elements
then invest the solar system combined
and so I think if he did start to
install eptein yeah absolutely to have
people start managing installers you
know your money that star for materials
while simultaneously expanding its life
and I think that would be very popular
the question is well don't they keep
stalling until they actually drop that
star down to being a minimum red dwarf
made of a mass one about you know a
tenth of the mass of our Sun or even
just kept you know taking a powerful
auto it was just like a brown dwarf or
something like that and that's that's
really hard to say because that would
just come down way too much the
economics and the specific technology
they had in play bitly Hollywood asked
could all galaxies be destroyed you know
when you're talking about something
natural times and not natural in the
sense the life form is where it's very
complex evolve system I mean start
talking about destruction that's a
dubious storm you could certainly
redistribute the Gaussian I could just
talking about star lifting a moment ago
you can use that same technology to move
stars around our galaxy is eating tons
of smaller galaxies is in the past so
consuming a few them and you know that's
been walking on for millions of years
and heat some more for the emerges with
the other you know dozen or so galaxies
nearest us in a local cluster or local
group and becomes one big merged galaxy
but yeah you could destroy a galaxy but
you get in what way are you dumping all
that mass into a black hole that's not a
state instructions I say I destroy this
mountain to turn it into a whole bunch
of stone fortresses or something like
that
let's see Sam to ask what are your
thoughts on technologically mediated
cell apathy and not that many actually
um you know you if you have good enough
mind augmentation or new or link type
stuff and actually that's the never said
we got in October to my machine you know
phases then you can develop something
like telepathy very easily um you know
it's just radio at that point though and
in some ways as I saying that speech is
likely its way to communicate fast other
people and I but it's a very baseline
you think about some the bandwidth of
speech I mean mom said start with a
bandwidth of text bandwidth the text is
less than kilobyte a second I weigh less
and in fact it's more like bits for a
second um no more speeches in the
kilobytes per second range because
you've got so much intonation of voice
and of course it's all shorthand and we
know it's a compressed medium you have
words and concepts and euphemisms that
convey way more information than the
textbook dictionary definition of those
words and of course those definitions
are a lot more than one ward and when I
say something like cat there's a lot
more information just though the you
know three bytes of data you know CIT
but so we already have a type of
telepathy in the sense of communicating
thoughts people but that technologically
created one terms like a radio so you
know you sent other people that was
scanning your brains the question is are
you gonna better bandwidth out that and
do you want a better bandwidth so
conscious minds and we usually want to
communicate our conscious minds people
anyway though we do allow more things
like body language you don't actually
run it all that high of a bit rate I
mean more or less do you think at you
know the way you might say kilobytes per
second in terms of concepts and texts
but you know you could use to send image
to somebody and of course that's
gigabytes per second you know I so very
high resolution even compared to modern
cameras and it's only easier if instead
trying to explain something to someone
you just flicked on the image they're in
the brains very well sorted to handle
that bandwidth so that would be an
example of it but so we'll see how
people go with that you know it's it's
that there's a comfort zone there you
want you can around the technological
hurdles and nighttime it's gonna have
the same one on that um you know what
about what coin themes on this is that
just cuz you've the technology for that
it's you know whether or not you you say
how do we use or do we not use it and
say well odds are unless it represents a
big threat to everybody or a big bonus
to everybody that nobody disagrees about
being a bonus then some people then use
in some people or not and you're going
to have a kind of a we want to say
necessarily breaking choreography inside
the same culture and civilization with
these these disagreements to but you
have a kind of a big devotion so what
nations or technologies people find
appropriate to use see clock reader
curry asks a question if you had an
aquatic habitat in space would it still
need spin gravity if it was pressurized
or full of water
I would go with YES on that one with the
caveat that I am either as you all just
normally in biologists um
and I mean I do not know too how
extensively we've tested goldfish and
other you know other oceanic life forms
and there are so many of them both
plants and animal wasn't bacteria to
know how much of a factor that gravity
gradient really plays inside the water
brood is they are you know like marine
snow that keeps the lower level is like
the abyss of pelagic that that is
totally dependent on gravity obviously
you probably have more variability in
what's okay to use though so if all you
really need is a gradient that causes
things dropped and a very slow spin
might be you know sufficient so you only
had like your go-to moon gravity on the
other hand it might be really dependent
on that so you you know I think that you
would have a big difference if you
raised although with the gravity in
terms of what was optimized to live way
on when so you know if you wanna minik
or sabotage you probably wanna go with
one chi even the ocean simulated ocean
that habitat but you know that would be
mothers examples way or me especially
cuz water is so heavy and that weights
would be weighing on the shell of that
that cylinder habitat I think you see a
lot of experimentation you know we don't
need we want to have I always say that
one of the best use of of these onio
Soto's is as space you know nature
preserves and those you'd want to
replicate the native environment of or
as exactly as you can and especially in
the fact if you identify as being
particularly important to that you know
that local Baja ecology but then after
you've got those those nature preserves
in place and you can build so many
things you might uh you might just go
ahead and do a lot of diversification
you know see what happens when the
gravity is down behalf on these habitats
and what happens with the the way or was
no things like that but I would say in
in general as loose gas that
ocean environments are less sensitive to
gravity changes then then land-based
life would be let's see
Alexander corvo's ass why are we all why
why are we always expecting aliens to
act by incredibly logical principles but
most sci-fi there was humans though just
as stupid as today and bogged down by
bureaucracy etc I make it joke that a
lot of riders having no sense of realism
and very little actual acquaintance with
hello the governmental systems
bureaucracies walk but you know the
reality is when you're writing up a
fictional story you only ever creating
as much lay out of it as you need to
tell a story and then like one layer I
beneath that you know you're you're you
got which tell them the book and you
want to go maybe one level deeper than
that in terms of your world building and
you might get a little bit deep on some
spots but really more to kind of flush
out in your head what's going on with
something important to the story so you
know you're trying to set up a conflict
there's always any story's gonna have a
conflict in it and you know the question
is are you going for one way or it's
it's humanity against some Evo aliens in
which case you either have the
government back home working very
effectively or you're trying to show how
we're losing because of bureaucracy
etceteras is doing something to hold us
or you had a really nice alien so you've
got really nice aliens a setting and if
your story is about really nice large
for aliens like the Vulcans you're not a
friend these people cause they're
probably logical but they make good
friends and allies some more because
they've noticed out and you know halt
you um if you are doing a story about an
alien like that you're not gonna have a
conflict with them that arises from the
Oh behavior so it has to come from your
own side and of course you'll want your
hero your protagonist to be a you know
by paying the bud you want them to be a
good logical rational person so that
means it has to be the other
interlocutors your ambassador or your
controlling government they are the ones
who have to be incredibly illogical or
stupid international now that is a good
indicator of how fiction can really
impact wait ways people tend to look at
the ward in the potential future though
is you're writing a story because you
want the uninteresting story which means
got conflict in whether its aggressive
conflict or violent conflict or just you
know angry discussions going back and
forth in the storyline alternately we
tend to move towards minimizing conflict
a lot in civilization and so I you know
that's not going to really match up to
both expectations although some poster
lobbies you disagree with that comment
thank you a nun a guy what are your
thoughts on AI singularity we talked
about that in a technological
singularity episode in the existential
crisis series also way back in a year or
two I think you know we've almost
managed to redo expand everything from
year one so I suppose a lot of the e
ought to stop stalking you filter then
as we play it or placed because a lot of
the forced and second year stuff I feel
like the production values could use a
lot of walk and there's others of my
favorite subjects I want we do them
anyway because I want to talk about the
more technological singularity and I
think we did talk about this in machine
rebellion as well um I don't think you I
mean the biggest issue I tend to have
when people discuss technological
singularity is as assumption that you
turn on a computer this little bit
smaller than human one day and then the
next day it's it's smaller than it was
yesterday and the day after that's even
smaller and day after that makes another
one that's even smaller and smaller and
just keeps improving the capacity to
create an artificial intelligence does
not necessarily imply that artificial
intelligence is somehow a master at
creating a bit of ocean you know you
made the best when you could at the time
presumably unless you are specifically
limiting it um and so it's got to figure
out whatever the technological hurdle is
to get to that next step that none of
you could figure out and it's not going
to just magically know that that is not
how that walks in the really just scan
through Wikipedia real quick the law and
all the material on something doesn't
work that way either you have to
incorporate they're put into practice
test things out prototype stuff you know
we've been using whole teams of people
on AI and I would argue that humans have
been trying to make a smaller human for
tens of thousands of years
it's not easy so the idea that you're
going to start a technological
singularity out that is going to be the
only one of its kind and it's gonna wrap
the alphabet so BL so you can make
another one that was even nearly as good
as it that's the thought that always
gets me that's the the kind of a line
that many people seem to assume it's
gonna happen with AI that I just don't
think is in Sally largely you know solid
Oh at all really I think it's it's just
kind of a mistaken oversimplification of
how that works but are we gonna
eventually end up with with some sort of
intelligence that's very smaller than
humans I you know how I feel about using
what artificial intelligence I think
humans already artificial intelligences
I think yeah of course
I mean that's like that's the goal will
make people smart or make people smarter
but if you think of your AI as a person
then that works too
and you know it could be a sidewall good
genetic engineer person or we just get
really good teaching people whatever it
is I think you come back a million years
from now you're not gonna have people
who are smart as normal humans as the
mainstay of that civilization it would
be way way smaller but I think it's one
of those things where just have lancers
like that overnight I just don't see
anyone walking out guys Vallejo and ask
hey Isaac what do you think about the
possibility of some type of plasma based
life living on the Sun I you know I
always find out when interesting stories
I'm trying to go who was done there no
Kevin J Anderson did that and is a song
of the seven sons he also had and uh
folks they've got a complete war award
and ones that lived in the cause of gas
giants um he's a nice idea but the thing
is chemistry all happens at certain
temperatures because those are the
temperatures of which chemicals can
actually bond to each other and form
complex systems there was no chemistry
going on inside stars or not not
particularly so everything there is you
know have proteins
you know star you're not gonna get
macromolecules in a stall it's just not
gonna happen now you could have other
universes theoretically where uh where
the the physics were set up so that you
could have complex chemistry going out
the temperatures at which fusion also
took place but again that's a different
universe with different rules you I
don't even know how you go about
engineering
something like that either you could
potentially make something that was you
know made out of tungsten that could
survive inside a Red Dwarf
so maybe that way but you never had to
be really the artificial a second
evolved naturally allergies today
Norwegian asks how can we spot a von
Neumann probe on Earth Moon well it's a
von Neumann probe specifically that's
very easy to spot because the thing is
only sticking around a lot of to make
copies of itself and if it only is set
to make 100 copies it lands makes them
goes away and you be the spot it when it
does that or not if it's the kind it's
going to start there and keep building
and building 12 runs out of raw material
then you'll see that one coming
but I don't think in general you'd
launch a von Neumann probe at a planet
well even time even like I'll move on at
the attentive just said to an asteroid
because if it's just probing you know
you don't really need more than one
asteroid to make enough probes to hit
every every system in the galaxy and so
you'd launch them off in general
directions just to kind of speed the
process up and torn a lot more into it
and make with done see so you might have
it stop and grab and I asteroid there
was like we can't it and horrify that
but that should be about the extent of
what to do with that
it's got time for a couple more
questions that I as we mentioned be
doing that discord chat afterwards and
if I've got a 15-minute delay from we
stop here when I get in there by the way
Pete Rowland asks can life use a
radioactive elements oh sorry just that
one
Matthew sass thoughts on non carbon life
why does it need to be carbon-based
should we look for anything else we
should always keep an eye out for other
things and it's always pop you see
silicon but you know you talk to
biochemists honest they're a lot less
optimistic about that but you know they
don't say no it couldn't have at all and
again you you know what you mean by life
we say life like this I mean where could
it naturally evolve obviously if we
build a computer that's you know like
coming out or data from Star Trek that's
a lie for I'm just splitting hairs say
otherwise at that point um at least in
the kind of context that we mean for
this you know and and that's obviously
not a carbon-based life-form
so but meeting a lot but old modeling
and that's one of the things we would be
probably more likely to find it in a lad
that we actually built the stuff up
intentionally Steve could happen if we'd
find out another system
I think carbon carbon and water-based
life is the one that makes the most
sense to find it should be the most
common all right let's go ahead and hit
our last question
hypersonic monkey brains a Hesse
presumably master genetic Athene what is
the public trans human and what traits
would it have I would say probably now
when you say traits and maybe seen a lot
Big Five aspect test that they use is
not totally Maya Briggs and then
somewhere in some ways and there when it
has you openness new ideas your
conscientiousness in terms of you know
how stick to you are and then your
extraversion level and then that's the
Morris members ocean then your one is
the a agreeableness how I like we all
and then your nomadic traits the N is 2
for neuroticism presumably you want you
know the the first few of those to be
high or and I don't know if you actually
want agreeableness to be high or sex you
can have some downsize I just want to do
blow but then of course you presumably
want your neuroticism fairly low but
then maybe not because that can happen
drive people to be much more you know a
creative productive in some ways to but
that would seem like if we talk about
traits mental traits those be the ones
you'd want to probably walk on in trying
to enhance in some way although you know
did they say these things seem like good
things but a lot of times the reverse
case so actually have a lot of value to
and especially when you don't have too
many of them you know you make a site
it's a hyper conscientious than some
people or not very much so it can be
really valuable for me to kind of break
out your glutes and then and think about
new ideas which I guess we have to try
to open this but there are a lot of
those for like that it's kind of
debatable now we get to like physical
traits obviously it's handy to be smart
or fast or you know small when it was
about parsing speed faster reflexes that
be very handy one
but that's actually kind of same thing
there could be potential downsides some
sort of enhancements too but that's a
no-no that's that's kind of debatable on
that one let's try see I can pull this
thing up to see what the you know if
it's a trait degree in food that we
think we might have improved as probably
good one to enhance I can't pick up the
list of all the people who did super
chest this time to thank everybody but
if you did do want to see much at once
thank you very much for that donation to
that and again we're gonna go ahead and
close out for the day if you I think
you've been seeing the schedules we come
up we got a voice of course our episodes
on Thursday we might have one might have
one next Sunday at a but I'm not sure
about that yet it'll be pretty soon if
not though anyway you're welcome to come
join us over on esa discord so for I
will continue to chat live I didn't get
your questions and we will see you next
next Thursday so that wraps up our live
stream for today but we are not done yet
as mentioned we'll be doing an
after-hours live voice chats over on the
SFI a discord so linked in the video
description where you can keep asking me
questions live for an hour or so I'll be
in there shortly after the show ends but
if you miss me feel free to leave
questions in the comments on this video
and I'll try to get back in this evening
to answer them I hope to hear from you
there but if not I'll see a Thursday
