good afternoon everyone and welcome to
the sfia monthly livestream q a
we'll get started in just a moment but
go ahead and start getting your
questions in the chat window so our
moderators can start relaying those to
me as soon as we start please try to
keep the questions concise and watch
your spelling and try to be polite to
others in the chat
we usually go for about an hour so you
probably want to grab a drink and a
snack though we'll take a break about
halfway through too
with all that said welcome and let's get
started
good afternoon everybody and welcome to
our live stream for march 2022 we're
going to start taking your questions in
just a moment but as usual we'll be
going to have your questions submitted
to our moderators in the chat they'll go
through and find questions and they'll
post them over to my lovely assistant
and wife sarah who will be reading them
for today and just go ahead and start us
off with a question well yes so our
first question today is from spaceman
and he wants to know if you think that
magnetic monopoles are real
okay so for some context a magnetic
monopole is
the idea that normally you have a magnet
that's got a dipole north and a south
side and the idea is if you cut a magnet
in half like a little ball magnet if i
just cut that in half there's still new
north side and south side you get two of
them a little bit like quarks right you
cut two quarks in half you get two more
quarks so you get four quarks you never
get one isolation there's been a lot of
theories you could have magnetic
monopoles and that's of a lot of
interest to us from a theoretical
standpoint as well as from a mega
structural standpoint because if they
are real that we can make something
called mag manner which essentially
atoms made of magnetic monopoles and the
bonds between them would be the
difference between like graphene really
strong and tissue paper magmatter would
be that much stronger and then some so
we could build things like a nib and
ring which could build things where you
could spend an entire planet from a
string as thick as your finger if you
get something to spend that plan over so
it is of interest to us i'd love for
them to turn out to be real but i'm not
going to hold my breath i'd say probably
not
very good we have a question here from
suzuki455
um
actually he's asking rob space alien
bats asks you on behalf of nasa where to
send a probe anywhere in space that is
capable of sending back real-time data
where would you send it to
i could send a probe anywhere in space
with real-time data i'm going to assume
for the moment we uh could ignore you
know the speed limit no no light lag or
anything either
um
oh my that's very much an exoplanet
question
i i would honestly say probably
somewhere near the orion nebula
in the sense that there's so much stars
packed in there but not so incredibly
dense that we might actually have a
chance and of actually
picking up signals from civilizations
there because there's a good deal of
density there but not that point where
living there you just be sterilized by
supernova but lastly any yellow stall
that's over 5 billion years old it's a
good pick
all right the next one up is a super
chat from dara cloak thank you hi sarah
and isaac my question this month is do
you think dead civilizations is a good
solution to the fermi paradox
it's a good solution it's actually an
excellent solution i just don't think
it's very likely to turn out to be true
um
the
original concept of the fermi period
oxygen didn't get named until the 70s uh
and was kind of credited to enrico for
me afterwards he had just assumed that
there was no way you would ever contact
alien civilizations because
they wouldn't last very long with
nuclear bombs being around and he helped
invent the h-bomb so he's a little bit
pessimistic without use of it and that
it wouldn't really be possible to ever
build a spaceship and we hadn't even
landed on the moon yet at that time so
let alone gone to another planet let
alone another stall let alone colonized
it so his basic notion was even the
civilizations are pretty lucky they're
probably gonna blow themselves up in a
few thousand years and they've never had
a chance to colonize the system after
that
that's a really popular notion for the
fluid paradox during the cold war i
first thought it was incredibly
pessimistic but it does work if you
assume the natural end of those
civilizations
is to blow themselves up uh before they
colonize a lot of space or that they
even do but those civilizations blow
themselves up too so if they do get a
colony or two out there those blow
themselves up probably a chance to
reseed the galaxy again that solution
works fine i just think it's one of
those ones where it's so pessimistic
that if it's true i'd almost prefer to
ignore it as an option but at the same
time i don't actually think it's very
likely to be true either i don't really
see a lot of evidence of us blowing
ourselves up in a way that is
permanently fatal you just don't build
nukes are expensive right nukes are
incredibly expensive to build enough to
truly wipe civilization from forever we
need way way way more than we ever had
during the court war
you know it's not even close and you'd
wreck your budget just trying to build
those to no gain
budget i'm not sure they'd have a budget
at that time you wouldn't need one
um
geek wants to know if you think that the
uap may turn out to be our doom
um
you know uaps or
uap is your opposite you pick what you
want to call them i don't tend to think
that these represent any sort of actual
hostile presence to earth indeed when i
assume that they are real at all and i
am a skeptic about the sightings on
these things for the most part
you say well it's probably terrestrial
spacecraft right and say well whose is
it which military could it be i said
well it's probably always right uh
people who are not in the military tend
to assume that all the military talks to
each other things like that but most
folks i know who who have military
background who think that the uap signs
by the navy funds surreal tend to assume
that the
it could even be other navy aircraft
there was no communication between
departments on things like that and they
don't go around bragging to each other
about what their coolest new toys are
because
people talk you know
um and so if they are real they're most
likely our own things being caught on
tape by our own crews but if they're not
and i tend to think they are not from
earth if they are not far off as i would
tend to assume is not the case if they
are alien then they can't really be that
hostile right because again if you can
build interstellar spacecraft blowing up
a whole planet not a big issue in terms
of like beating them blowing them up etc
so probably not hostile to nothing ortho
they often worth probably not a threat
to humanity in general
except in the existential kind of way
all right jacob says what factors impose
an upper limit or a practical upper
limit to the size of spacecraft since
they don't need to fit under bridges or
into ports like cars or boats is it just
the material yield strength
i mean there is no we we have a ship
called uh but we have an episode called
planet ships and it's it's it's like a
lot of our titles uh it sounds like
click bait and it isn't like colonizing
the sun that's exactly what we discussed
there
uh you can build spaceships of almost
any size you're trying to interstellar
colonization you might use planet you
might use an entire star system however
um
when you're not doing atmospheric craft
you still do have size limitations we
talk about using like laser sailcraft
between stars
and um you have to run into all that
stuff in the middle right
space
isn't that empty
and the rate at which you hit stuff and
the amount of energy it pulls off you
goes with the cube of your own velocity
so you go 10 times faster you're getting
a thousand times much drag force on
yourself the space between us and the
nearest solar system is thin but it
ain't completely empty and again we have
very empty spaces above our atmosphere
we orbit stuff at that incredibly
insanely thin in terms of air it still
drives stuff out of orbit eventually and
that stuff is going a hundred the speed
that we'd like to be able to actually
send a nostalgia ship with us getting a
millionth of the drag so yes you don't
want to just build ships arbitrarily big
just because you can streamlining does
actually matter for them but from a
practical standpoint
you know once you're 10 kilometers wide
then you have that that kind of that
limit what you could do with steel and
tensile strength and where you honestly
are pushing what you probably should
from engineering standpoints for other
materials better tensile strength so
there's really no reason to go wider
than that you go wide with rotating
sections because you want to produce
that slowest spin possible to create a
habitat there's no reason to go wide
over the indians not spinning so i'd say
that's probably about 10 kilometers wide
and
very rarely for a spaceship whichever
you want to go more than 10 times that
backwards so probably 10 kilometers wide
and 100 kilometers long is
about your maximum that you never really
do for an orc ship or anything else in
ostela you know planetary there'd be no
point
the imperial legalist wants to know if
in the near future how might the growth
of the space economy feed into current
trends such as the growth of the
surveillance state growing synergy of
state and corporation etc
um i would uh
in a in we just had the uh the times
past my phone off a lot of the doomsday
movies when i was a kid like blade
runner which is set in la in 2019 and
uh i know the joke with uh with blade
runner is that uh it's very accurate
because it shows la in the distant
future was a smart covered city full of
corporate logos uh having just come from
l.a recently i'd say that that is
not an unfair assessment but
um
you know the cyberpunk genre has built
out the idea that corporations and
governments become the same thing um
you can assume that if you want that to
be a case but the idea that that's a new
trend is
not really the case as long as we've had
large governmental business bodies
merchant guilds et cetera like that not
like the hanseatic league right they've
been very intertwined with the
governments and vice versa there are big
organizations with lots of power
influence of people they're always going
to be involved in governments
um
and that's true for all the other trends
too surveillance states is more what
people do with the data
right there's only enough data out there
available that we're actually good at
assembling it and we're talking about
stuff that you couldn't really stop
people from getting anyway because they
freely put up on their own facebook page
right
no one divulges more of your private
details than yourself and your friends
and family about you on facebook
yeah
and um
you know that's that's just a matter of
compiling that and something useful but
in the past i could do that too there's
there was no easy electronic way of
compiling it advising things like this
has more to do with how you monitor how
people use the data that does what the
actual data and your ability to
calculate what that data really is
in my opinion obviously
i would be as worried about that as
anybody else when it comes to privacy
that's going to be one of those constant
concerns and in my opinion the best way
that you deal with problems like that
and same for problems of real corporate
influence for instance is just to keep
actively involved and watch dogging
things like this you know
and i don't know that the technology
itself is anything other than the newest
newest version newest fad a version of
how you go about doing this stuff it's
that personal vigilance thing that
really matters
all right pablo enrique brazil says
thank you so much for all the content
you and your team have produced you guys
are amazing
thank you
[Laughter]
thank you very much actually it's
isaac burdow do you think you will ever
write a book
um jeez
you know two days ago i started the
script up on a redo of our original
episode zero megastructural summary
version called uh megastructures
compendium and by the second paragraph
just now it's pasting in all the various
entries because as i do as a
alphabetical listing i realized that i
was going to be busy working on the
longest episode we've ever done
um
in any given
year we turn out
somewhere in the vicinity of a quarter
million words of script right that's
longer than anything other than like
your wins of winter or you know really
long fancy doorstop or novels um those
could easily be compiled into an essay
and usually you've shaved a lot of text
out of that to make it brief or
in which case you'd have a book right
there
this is the format i like to put in am i
gonna do a book someday it seems like i
almost guarantee at some point we would
do one whether that would be fiction or
non-fiction i don't know
uh probably non-fiction will be the
first one i want to try on something
like that but at the same time and the
number one candidate that would be a for
me paradox convenient redo but uh i you
know i like this format i like the
scripted episodes with the visual
overlay and narration that we do that's
kind of my genre
i'm it's good to try new things but i
don't really see that as that's not my
high priority
do you think books of the future are
going to look like videos of today
i don't think so no um you know there's
a good question on that one uh who was
that from me oh okay
um
video killed the radio star was a song
that came out when i was a kid uh i
actually saw the video for it so i was
much older it's a weird video but a lot
of the ones the early 80s on mtv or
really weird videos
um
but you know video is still around it
actually has a bigger audience than ever
used to uh just because it's more of us
consuming it it's market shares down but
there's more of it i don't know if we're
actually doing as many printed books as
we were when i was a kid but i remember
in the 90s somebody said we were now at
a place like barnes noble was selling
more books than any point in history per
capita right not just in terms of
quality all the while you had more tv
channels level your thousands of tv
channels by then you know and now i
don't probably count channels anymore
right millions probably
um
more does not assume in the end of other
things it means a lot of times there's a
saturation the market shifts around it
varies you know but you know i love
audio books not because books are bad i
got a ton of books sitting right over
there on the shelf but i tend to do
audio books uh you usually prefer
written books um you being my wife in
this case i'm putting out over there
so
um she's sitting behind the main camera
i'm looking at so i tend to look at her
which makes me look at the camera so
i'll stay out of his face like this when
i answer questions
um and other people like the video
format let's say if you like to watch
the history channel or listen to a
history audiobook or read a history book
that's just a preference of format and
some of them are much better than others
for presenting style i don't think any
of them are going to go away
so protein wants to know in a society
with mind upload is there any way to
prevent mass duplication and abuse of
uploaded minds
yeah yeah well it's the same way you
prevent anyone else like that in a world
of mass duplication of people out in the
rural areas uh back in the day sherlock
holmes
conan o'doyle the writer of sherlock
holmes through the character of sherlock
holmes expressed a terror of the idea of
what kind of crimes of graph out in the
rural areas where you couldn't see
things whereas in cities you hear
somebody scream and you know if someone
would come and investigate
i think it's probably a slight different
era at that time
but you know
people have always worried about what
kind of horrible things people might be
doing out of sight out of mind if you
can just duplicate people on a hard
drive but i think it's a bit of a
mistake to assume that you know it's
just some little chip
that you'd be having that would have
someone's personality ready on it
um even the case like the landow limit
trying to run a human brain is going to
leave a
infrared signature as you will you have
a power bill that indicates you're
running something that big
uh you're going to have a heat signature
says you're running something that big
and people are going to start noticing
plus still amount of calculation of all
kind of that you see on that so i guess
it kind of comes down to what sort of
systems we're allowing
and again this is what the opposite side
of a privacy issue is
we permit an awful lot of privacy
invasion right in order to make sure
that other crimes do not happen so after
this is wayne won in you know one home
against another
that's the thing we'll start to worry
about in the future too uh if we can
store people and run people on a little
disc that size then we probably have to
discuss whether or not we'd be okay with
whatever degree of privacy invasion was
deemed necessary to minimize people
basically taking uh you know their
ex-spouse they didn't want to break up
with and running a simulation of them
over and over again or somebody who
offended them one time they got a copy
of the brain on via
running a simulation that moving over
again just torment them um and that's
that's those
ethical issues that people are going to
have to deal with down the road when
they're actually a little bit more
familiar with the technology right
we are good to talk about a lot of these
problems in advance but a lot of times
until we see how the actual landscape
develops we can kind of only take blue
stabs at it it's like we used to have
with uh the image that robots in the
future will be like the robot butler
that look like a human it always raises
that slavery issue that came so much but
obviously the robot butler around the
house is your room by it runs around the
floor and other than getting you fights
with your dog or cats it really doesn't
have much of a personality we're not
really void if we're enslaving this
creature right
a lot of what we thought was all
concerned about smart manufacturing came
from us misunderstanding the idea that
most things we need robots do
are insanely stupid easy compared to
the human mind and so we didn't need to
replicate the heap of mine for that thus
far
that's the same kind of thing that's
going to apply to a lot of technological
dilemmas where we want to be mindful of
them and thinking about them in advance
but we can wait to making four decisions
or worry about them too much until that
has actually gotten closer and we see
what that landscape really might look
like
all right so ed welsh says in the event
of an extraterrestrial invasion would we
stand more of a chance of survival with
a unified global government or a
collection of rival nations that come
together for one specific purpose
um
you're gonna lose
uh i i i'm never quite sure how to put
this in the kind of context here um
if you are
an absolute firm believer that that you
know in atheism you would still have a
better statistical odds in your mind of
dropping to your knees and praying than
doing any other activity you could think
of if hostile aliens invade the intent
of killing us all right
you have no chance against that your
chance against that is exactly the same
as an aunt connie surviving when it's
trapped inside a box and there's a guy
with an exterminator there with some
poison who knows what he's doing you
will lose it doesn't matter what you're
going to lose but
uh whether you join over into a unified
government or breaking through a million
little sub bans the only reason it might
matter is if their intent is not to wipe
you guys out or completely dominate you
they're going out thank you right
they're going to beat you strategically
it's not just that they outnumber you
it's not just they've been old guns with
you is that they know how to fight
better they know how to do these things
better so
in terms of human civilization surviving
your best odds probably would not be
unified because then you'd have various
governments who hadn't been practically
involved in the conflict if they weren't
planning to kill us off who they might
spare because they weren't particularly
malicious or because those guys hadn't
fought them and surrendered or they
admired one group over another it gives
you a divorcee of options right in which
case the adi meanwhile it's all banned
together against the alien menace
that's a nice idea but from a practical
standpoint you almost would be better
off you know breaking into a bunch of
little disparate groups and trying to
fight that way because then you might
actually be able to not all have the
same fate
and you know it's not the nicest concept
in the world but if you're going up
against an enemy that wants you dead
outnumbers you outguns you and out
thinks you you know you you need to find
a way for them to not want you dead
because that's the way you win that's
the only way that you win it all
marbet says isaac what you got going
into the greenhouse this year and at
this moment we all begin laughing and
cueing the snow yeah
it is snowing outside actually i don't
know if it's snowing outside at the
moment it was snowing earlier we went to
go take photographs of covered bridges
with snow on them nothing's going in the
greenhouse this year because the
greenhouse
is
that's the wind yeah
greenhouse is currently seeing this
assembled in my garage
twice
because we had a very windy year that
blew it down when we moved we have a
much more wind hit area so the
greenhouse needs to be rebuilt
uh with greater wind pressure in mind so
probably it will be built out of big two
by fours and concrete as opposed to
the previous version
then we're coming forward i'll figure
out what i'm putting actually in it but
for this year probably just some chord
frames and we're planning an orchard uh
well whatever those actually ship in so
well whenever it stops snowing long
enough for the uh ground warm up yeah
too
we still have a christmas tree inside
the house it's sitting upstairs above my
head by the way uh we uh got a live tree
that thing weighs like a hundred pounds
so like four foot tall i thought it was
150. yeah well how much i think you're
right it probably was 150. it's gotten
bigger too something so
um i've been watering it the whole time
and you know we decided we didn't want
to just throw it's alive it's got a root
ball right so we're going to plant it
but we don't want to have to get like
snow shock so
sitting in the living room right now
just getting
bigger and bigger and bigger
i think it's grown six inches since we
brought it in
all the way around and up
so and this is the the idea that if your
wife says hey i'd like to try a live
tree
yes say no say yes
i think i'm gonna deck that thing out
with like solo christmas lights and
leave it by the road just so you could
see it every day i was gonna take my
christmas lights down like three days
ago too so
scooter gsp says what would you consider
the top three rules for individuals
wishing to do good world building for a
sci-fi or fantasy setting can you give
me that question again because i just
had santa claus pop in my head for some
reason would that be rule number one it
could be but the question was the
question was what would you consider to
be the top three rules for individuals
wishing to do good world building or a
sci-fi or fantasy setting
uh rule one do your research right
um
two for realism's sake and kind of going
on one there
go ahead and pick one or two areas of
real human knowledge it doesn't have to
be a science by the way it could be or
equity or social science for instance
supposed to hard science but also just
be like an area of human history which
is very nice for fantasy for instance um
and have that as your main focus
something you actually have knowledge
about and done the research on because
not that people expect every little bit
to be realistic it's they expect the
bits that you dive into
to be right or feel right and then for
law three i'd actually say brandon
sanderson's laws on these things uh
which i think is more than one but the
key one on that one is essentially uh if
your goal is to avoid due sex machina in
the story because people often find that
very
you know unsatisfying what you're really
trying to do is predict all the strange
ways in which this new technology this
new concept what it is you have that's
fantastic in the in the book series
that's science fiction it's not
something that we have good data on or
isn't real at all trying to predict the
cool ways that can be used
and and and exploited as opposed to just
the first level that's what people enjoy
they want a complex system where the
rules
actually mean something so they learn
you know they got this idea in their
head then fans get horribly set when
someone comes right back by it's like oh
yeah nobody ever thought to do this
strange thing before but now vex the
system um for example for those of you
who are less familiar with this stuff if
you've seen the movie last jedi it's not
really that surprising that someone
rammed a spaceship uh at hyperspeeds
it's surprising is that
they have had that technology for 10 000
years and it was a surprise somebody did
that
for the first time ever
is the impression
or if it isn't then why they would
actually ever build their ships that
size that were vulnerable to that you
know um and that that was kind of thing
that was game breaking about that so
when it comes to realism and science
from fiction and war building
do your research
pick a few areas to really focus on one
or two that are like the ones you're
really trying to add that level of
realism to right
uh and then three always trying to think
about the consequence of in your
bringing in that changes the system it
doesn't just have to be technology too
by the way it could be a different like
aspect of human behavior you know
uh
like if you are just uh well we'll skip
individual examples playing science
fiction for that but if you're changing
something fundamental about human
behavior with an alien species try to
think of how that plays out you can make
mistakes on it too but people appreciate
the level of depth you go into and then
if you actually get published talk to
your fans right they're going to find so
many cool suggestions for how to use
that that's going to save you problems
down the road for trying to fix that so
all right
walsh0311 do you think that military
sci-fi can motivate more veterans to
produce
stem careers
that's a good question um
you know in my unit in the army uh it
was like geek central um
probably the most popular piece of
science fiction uh that was probably
going around at least in terms of people
stealing my personal books or borrowing
them indefinitely because i did loan
them out uh but at that time where you
won't have a 40k was really popular but
star wars would be the next one this
would be old legends star wars the good
one uh
and uh you know that that was very
popular too but military sci-fi really
popular in the military uh but just
sacrifice in general tends to be pretty
popular with that demographic i'd say um
does it motivate more than we go into
stem creoles
i mean i'm going off the list in my head
of the people who i know who are really
into it
uh and
two of them just to my friends circle
maybe a dozen people chew them with an
engineering one doing the science but
the other has been for the
number of other things like my best
friend big geek uh and he's a history
major you know history and teacher i
should say history major a decade ago
getting old so it varies a lot but
although you know again
when it comes to the military and people
who tend to be fond of it i would say
that you have a lot of folks who tend to
actually like science fiction but
history too and that's like the whole
fancy genre was very popular too but
history is uh well another one of those
really geeky fields too but definitely
popular in the military too so
um does science fiction motivate people
to go into stem in general is the better
question
uh and uh whether it's military or not
i'd say the answer is absolutely yes
yeah absolutely or do you just find that
people who are interested in stim also
tend to be interested in science fiction
well yeah i mean it is it's like a lot
of feedback cycles right you people who
are very interested in science tend to
be very interested in sci-fi uh i do
know some people who who are very
science-y but they wouldn't even
recognize captain cook and they saw him
maybe because they were looking older
william chat or something like that but
it's not that unheard of but you know
every area's got this area of geekiness
to some degree too it's not just like
stem you know
all right the next question here is from
colette fisk do you think that it will
become economically attractive to start
mining asteroids and if yes how far into
the future
um i mean it could even be 10 years
i i
i don't really expect asteroid mining to
be a big thing a decade from now but i
really would not be surprised if the
first official asteroid mining incident
took place
in this upcoming decade
um that said
um
i have two big kickstarters i'm fond of
for science you know for space in
general i don't know if either one would
be the one that really gets things
rolling but you know there's a an s
clean downhill on things like this every
new thing you get in space makes a
little bit cheaper to do more a little
bit more likely do more things there but
you that one big that thing because like
your 1849 gold rush kind of thing for
development or that uh you know there's
a lot of things historically that caused
a big boom to an area uh either economic
sector wise or in terms of actual
geography
and the two that i tend to be thinking
most would be the case for
space and again sometimes development
doesn't require any of these kind of big
kickstarters there's no big snowball
effect from one object but if there was
one
then it turns out to be for space i
think it would either be
uh power beaming with solar power
satellites because that's a trillion
dollar sector down here on earth right
uh or
uh asteroid mining because again
gold's worth a lot of money people like
gold platinum
all right uh coming up here on a couple
questions reverend rv
should orbital resonance be added as a
great filter
the need for planetary resonance
to keep us in the habitable zone and the
need for a saturn to keep jupiter from
bulldozing its way into the sun yeah i'm
trying to who i was actually talking
about with this recently and it actually
might have been david kipping from cool
wards um
ah
who was it
someone i was talking about recently and
was discussing the the idea that
jupiter's migration in the solar system
in the early days might actually have
cleared out all the super earths that
might have been here we did actually
have that as part of an episode at some
point too
uh recently but um
i like the option of it as a filter i
just don't think that it would represent
a strong filter there's nothing to me
that indicates something like that would
be you know for those who actually
remember when we used to do more great
filters and 40 paradox episodes we had
the uh scales of filters we'd say you
had your lesser filters those were
things that were basically
50 50 and even solar system that means
your monofilters were only like your one
in ten type of thing you know that uh
nine set of people didn't pass that or
knife set of walls and past that one
then we add your major filters we put as
1000 and your grade filters which would
be your one million plus kind of events
um
i
could see over the resonance as a lesser
filter
or a minor filter i cannot see it rising
level of a major filter all right so uh
it might be one of those things that
made one in ten systems habitable
as opposed to where they otherwise would
be all habitable but i can't see it as a
one million thing let alone even one or
even 1 000.
all right
uh i was debating between one and two
more questions before the break and i
think i'm going to go with two okay
so
uh we have a super chat from drew
mctiguey are you planning any more
terraforming videos um
drew by the way and i always like to
point him out whenever he actually has
questions on this he's the first person
who co-wrote one of our episodes on the
on the channel
uh the spaceship competition back in the
day yeah
well so i was just thinking right there
is um the first time i did an episode
topic poll was over on our patreon forum
and we did three of them in a row and he
won the first one and helped out on that
episode and that is one of our more
popular episodes as the years have gone
by so
i will tell him what i often tell many
of our editors who uh who asked this
question if you do an outline for it or
actually write the script the odds of it
actually turning into an episode
sometime in the next year go up
immensely although uh yeah we'll do more
terraforming we'll actually do more
careful we got that marlo's episode
coming up next week next month
next sometime this next week is next
month yeah is it it is what is next
month's episode
they're actually up on the screen for
anyone who's watching this right now too
it's just like i don't get close to
april fool's day yeah but we're not
doing april fool's day episode though
they were pushing hard for that but it
episode right before that and i just
didn't want to try that out this year so
um the other problem is most of our
episodes don't actually get washed the
day they come out
so
usually about one tenth of views on the
average video on the day it came out so
a lot of those like specific jokes don't
work that well same reason why we never
do a thanksgiving special because
there's one every year because it's
always on thursday and uh basically i
only do one holiday episode with even
holiday
and uh you know it's so
uh what was the question oh terraforming
andrew yes we will absolutely do an
episode on that at some point again and
we have one coming up on mars not that
far from now but if you're like
outlining one out i'd be glad to start
working on it the last question before
the break is from radical bacon what's
your drink and snack today
well now i kind of wanted to be bacon
um uh that's true i've been adding bacon
bits like almost every breakfast meal of
light i've been doing omelettes a lot of
late so
making a bit sad a certain joy to all
things breakfasty
uh
the drink of choice today is coffee a
different mug than normal this is uh
my morning coffee mug let's see it
rotate it a little bit so they can see
what a beautiful mug your wife bought
for you yeah that is obviously it's my
wife just decayed a mug she bought for
me so it is good coffee
it's a hug and a mug
and it is good coffee and asked my
choice of snack for today i actually had
a chocolate chip cookie before i came
downstairs so there we go and i really
big snack off but like yeah i stole one
of your cookies
so we'll go ahead and go to break on
that notice and all you can go ahead and
grab yourselves a drink of stack or see
in a few minutes
so be on break for a few minutes it's a
great time to grab a drink and a snack
and get some more questions into our
moderators last month we tried a
lightning round toward the end to finish
up some unanswered questions and we did
manage to get through them all but some
got fairly fast answers and one i wanted
to spend a bit more time on was winton
ashley's question what do you think are
the biggest human barriers to having
interplanetary travel for untrained
mentally unscreened masses i.e onset of
various psychosis in transit ignorance
causing major issues space sickness etc
one thing that tends to stand out to me
is that a lot of our psychological
screening methods for businesses over
the years have been less effective than
we'd expect at grabbing good talent or
filtering out problems waiting to happen
so i'm not certain this is one of those
things we can expect to pay us a lot of
dividends we also always want to make
sure we are asking the right question
for instance it would seem the most
important trait for space ventures would
be enthusiasm for accomplishing them and
you would expect that to be a
self-selecting trait the enthusiasm is
implied by volunteering for the venture
however we need to keep in mind that a
family moving to a new colony might only
have one member who is really interested
in doing so with the others coming along
to maintain household integrity or it
might be that what they're really
enthusiastic about is leaving their
current situation which has often been
the reason for folks moving to new
colonies and often the real problems
they have are coming with them even if
they think that was where they were not
who they were causing the problem is
someone going to an asteroid for the fun
of space travel or because asteroid
mining pays well or because they think
they have a foolproof plan for
embezzling gold from that mine are they
just looking for a place they can't be
sued or extradited from
the reality is that while humans tend to
have a lot of water y'all built into us
especially in our youth not many folks
are anxious to move far far away unless
they feel the need to leave to survive
or prosper and usually the folks of
society is screening as its cream of the
crop are not those folks because folks
with tons of skills their society values
are often not feeling a need to escape
in order to prosper or survive
oh you might have tons of talented and
amazing individuals inside an oppressive
society who need to leave to get ahead
but odds are good the oppressive society
isn't screening for those qualities they
have because they are not considered
pluses so the traits many colonists
might have is being good at hiding their
unpopular talents or inclinations which
is to say they are good at fooling
screening tests
does this mean screening is pointless
no merely that you want to limit
yourself to things you can confidently
detect and probably that which is risky
for a mission more than beneficial there
are some fairly reliable personality
tests for relatively basic personality
inventory like the big five aspect test
for openness conscientiousness
extroversion agreeableness and
neuroticism and iq tests themselves are
decent predictors for certain
expectations of performance but mostly
you ought to find out if someone's going
to be good at welding metal plates in a
spacesuit by checking how good they are
at welding how physically fit they are
and how prone to being afraid of being a
spacesuit in the void they are and that
can predict success too if they hate
their job or suck at it or are terrified
of it then that's going to have a ton of
other secondary effects on their life in
space and on their neighbors and
teammates
in the end i don't think we'd expect
space to be any different than normal
job screening or folks trying to figure
out if someone's a good fit for their
club or neighborhood or suited to being
a soldier or police officer or doctor
space in this regard is likely to be the
same as at home and our attempts at
screening as fruitful or ineffective as
they are here
again it was a good question and i
thought it needed a little more time
than it got in our lightning round last
month though i think we'll try another
lightning round this month so don't
forget to get your questions into our
moderators for the second half of our
show and speaking of that let's get back
to the show and more of your questions
[Music]
sorry about that we all i was getting
coffee anyway oh it's finding those
chocolate chip cookies yeah i suggest
chocolate chip cookies and not let me
get a snack
all right and we will do a lightning
round again today for questions so
please keep eating those back in there
so that we can uh
see if we can actually get to another
one of those again i think we've we've
had over 50 questions that have been
cued for today and i don't think we've
made it through more than half of them
yet so
we don't need to do a huge lightning
round yet i'll tell you when we're ready
for lightning round but
let's start off with a super chat here
from merv johnson is it better to watch
you on youtube or nebula which service
is more beneficial to you um nebula i
actually own part of it but
uh in terms of views the the answer i'd
say i actually quote one of my peers
that is with the nebula with us the
answer is both plays
we're on a whole bunch of platforms but
i see things everywhere there but
youtube's still a flagship and it
probably is always going to be or at
least for the indefinite foreseeable
future but i love seeing folks who run
nebula just because i do like seeing
that format continue it's a it's an
experiment that's been incredibly
successful thus far it's the biggest
creator owned one out there but at the
same time it's it's still not all
flagship you know
all right and airline studios says any
thoughts on the fate of traditional
space agencies um
one more time
any thoughts on the fate of traditional
space agencies they will get bigger and
more bureaucratic with time
i mean that's
fine
already it happened in some cases so
that doesn't take too much prediction
uh you know i don't really see that and
we're going away you know you you see
something like nasa maybe breaking into
multiple different groups like noah
getting a big chunk of the share and
more going to a space for us another
bits going to um
other space agencies that temporarily
skip my mind for the moment
craig shoemaker could you devote an
episode to the topic of organized
complexity and the principles and laws
relating to it
folks i recognize that we just had more
of a moment ago and now it's craig hi
craig um let's see
organized complexity in the principle is
applying to it
i think it kind of depends on if you met
like emergence emerging theory something
like that as opposed to organized um
there's a lot underneath that and
actually
let's go to the possibility of yes and
message me more about what you meant
since i think you do actually have my
facebook messenger so thank you craig
for a good question i don't have an
answer for you today
gamers cafe in stargate universe destiny
does solar lifting what material would
you suspect it is mostly after to power
the ship and why okay so stargate
universe the last of the good sg-1
series uh i just would say goods and
since it was i liked the show but it was
the franchise died after two seasons of
that unfortunately and it kind of got
wind down in that they had this ancient
spaceship built by the ancients that's
like 50 or 60 million years old and it
gets low on fuel in like the second
episode or the
third episode they'll get low on fjord
it falls into the sun and scoops up
plasma and sucks it all up in the
engines and it runs on that everything
about that is is pretty much wrong
in terms of how you would do that for
star lifting but
you know it looks cool
and you could actually have stu you
could have spaceships that would choose
to
kind of dive bomb to catch fuel right
there are some scenarios where that
might be something things that would
actually do but not really that way um
what were they actually fishing for out
of there i have no idea um i'm reminded
that star trek voyager
uh used to say that deuterium was one of
the rarest elements and they're always
having problems finding it those who
know obviously deuterium is the second
most common
ice type of hydrogen the most abundant
atom in the universe so science fiction
sometimes because these things horribly
wrong i do not know what they are
fishing for let's assume that it was
just deuterium
jay weiner thank you for your super chat
could thermionic technology be used to
hide the heat waste of a megastructure
or dyson sphere swarm in space
is a fermionic
thermionic oh okay
um
i'm
every time i've encountered a way to try
to hide something
using some manipulation of
thermodynamics
uh you know it's kind of like when we
have those uh
there are certain types of materials
that be 100 not 99.9 but 100 opaque
to a given frequency of light you know
your full legit effects right um every
time i've seen something that was
supposed to manipulate the laws of
thermodynamics or optics to allow you to
really hide something
it usually had some really easy way that
you'd be able to detect that that effect
was in place so i not only seen how that
one would work out in a way that would
actually hide these things
sir heinz bond hi sarah and isaac
my question would be isaac would you
mind if someone is borrowing the
gardener ship's idea for their own
storyline no yeah i mean i'm not
actually one homestead positive that's
purely mine i named him that i love the
title but i really doubt in the first
person we ever came up with that i
probably just
optimized into an episode we have a lot
of those the one reason i don't put my
name on a lot of the ideas that are mine
besides that i don't really like that
style is i've never showed they really
all mine maybe somebody was coming with
them before all right you are welcome to
take that entire name lock stock and
bail
except you can't call the ship unity if
you do that it cannot be a garner ship
called unity uh but other than that yes
yeah you're welcome to go ahead and go
with that
please don't call it something like
adish isaac arthur or uss isaac arthur
everyone's going to assume that you'll
name me after either isigasimov or
author z glock anyways just
find a cooler name
divide by zero get cake hi everyone
isaac if you were to be abducted by
aliens tomorrow what question or
conversations would you like to have
with them
you know there was a game called portal
that came out years and years ago that i
had something called cake is a lie that
was coming up throughout there as the ai
promised people cake and i used to post
that on my birthday all the time was a
cake with a number of candles on it said
26 on it and the background the other
thing and said cake is a lie
um and so i'm kind of fixated on that
part especially because last night while
we were screwing on netflix trying to
find something to finish the eating out
with there was a show up there that was
about people who made cakes that looked
like other things so you can't tell
they're cake
so i uh that's basically a long way of
saying sale could you repeat the
question please
okay
[Laughter]
if you were abducted by aliens tomorrow
would you be having a conversation with
them about what kind of cake you wanted
probably yes
would you have a conversation with him
about anything else
yes but people who know me in real life
the kind of rabbit trails you see going
outside the scripts a lot of times or
here are normal i i don't even make much
effort to like contain them outside of
that so yes i probably would be asking
them about zones they ate
all right c.r smith is it plausible that
we are the only life forms in the galaxy
thinking about the rare earth hypothesis
well apparently the others are all
thinking about cake so it's
um yeah i think that uh
yeah okay and
i think that uh i would i would say that
every civilization that doesn't actually
pop up with you know signals when they
see how big the universe is you know and
this was big in literature like the
entire cosmic horror genre that has hp
lovecraft and others right they see how
you know they got this new they say
universe is ancient and it is huge
right and there's no reason the life
wouldn't be elsewhere in it if those
things are true then there should be
other civilizations out there too and
they presumably would think the exact
same thing unless they had evidence to
the contrary because they got people
right next to them always saying hi
i find it hard to believe that eb who
has a fermi paradox question has not
considered the possibility that they're
unique in it so
here's a big juicy question from albert
jackson
hi isaac i remember a few years ago in
the quiet revolutions episode you
described an education system without
grades how would graduation requirements
exist in such a system or would they
not deny um
i mean you always need some method of
actually checking to see how a student's
progress is going on uh you know and
they're not for the purpose of
evaluating them with their peers i
that's
kind of secondary to me most of our
evaluation systems from my practical
standpoint are almost useless like a lot
of things that human resources does
trying to figure out who's gonna be a
good employee or not
and it turned out to be um less
effective than we would have liked in
terms of figure out who's good at what
right but you need those evaluation
systems see how you're going to help
that student improve because that tells
you whether they're good or bad at
usually i would say in the case like
that you're seeing which you know
at the smallest pixel you can so to
speak right what areas are they
interested in what areas are they not
because you might say oh this kid's not
interested in history but it turns out
they just don't care much about the
revolutionary war you know and that was
what they were being taught and turns
out the same was true because their
teacher had such the same enthusiasm for
a similar topic in terms of they didn't
even like that teacher so now you think
that person hates history but in reality
they love the topic when they find the
bit that applies to them right some
people just don't care about history
when it's always repetitions of this or
that war as opposed to
the history of cake manufacturing which
is really stuck in my head today now i
know
okay well we're going to talk about the
history of cake let's keep in mind that
one ancient cake that we don't eat very
often anymore is orange sponge cake
we still have a piece of our wedding
cake don't we yes yeah okay
we all have anniversaries coming up next
month so our second anniversary
from yesterday yeah one month uh one
month from two days from yesterday i
haven't seen the 25th there
that's where they sit 27th
enrique brazil says you are all amazing
thank you so much for the great content
and it probably doesn't matter what day
it is he still thinks you're amazing
thank you very much we
appreciate that
floor horbeck
years ago there were plans to descend
into volcanic tubes in active volcanoes
do we actually have materials to
withstand that amount of heat and
pressure um i mean i don't know what the
actual temperature an active volcano is
outside my head i'm guessing it's south
of 2000 centigrade though and yeah we
got materials that can do that quite a
few
um the highest ones we can do or by like
5 000. um and uh
i don't quote me on that just go look up
what it is for tungsten and you know or
was it tungsten half-height or something
like that but you make something solid
out of that that doesn't melt and then
you just run a lot of coolant through it
i mean a lot of coolants that is from a
practical standpoint probably not going
to let you go very deep and something
like that but it could be done yes
excuse me
there's even stars you can actually in
some ways it'd be easier to suspend
yourself into the photo sphere of a lot
of stars because
you just have to have something highly
reflect to keep the light away because
those things are much thinner than our
own atmosphere whereas
magma is a lot thicker but before we go
that way don't assume the movie the core
is ever going to likely to happen that
movie was atrocious and
amusing sometimes
ben prover to what extent do you think
that catastrophes like asteroid impacts
and solar flares contribute to the fermi
paradox by preventing the rise of
complex life and civilizations on
planets uh well we just got talking
about doctoral degrees before and i
would guess that that would be either a
minor or lesser filter i just don't
think that in themselves asteroid
impacts or anything that that happens so
often they make life more or less likely
uh to a point of being like one million
for a star system so maybe a major but
probably not i guess we'll be in the
lightning round are we
or not yeah not yet okay we'll see got a
little time still i've got a lot of
questions i'm trying to work in before
the lightning
so we have a super chat from tkg
wildfire thank you
what will the future accommodation i'm
sorry what will future commodities
business sectors and real estate that
space development
i think i misread that one i think
they're asking about commodities
business sectors and real estate in
space development what do you think will
be available uh energy will be the big
one and yes that's that's always gonna
be a big one something like that
although that could be becoming one of
those ones that's really kind of tiny in
a way and same way like fertilizer is a
very important commodity but really not
one of those big market fluctuators it
goes basically with the cost of fuel
which hits everything else too
so it tends to be in the background but
like fertilizer there you know um
any of the volatiles we actually use for
growing food probably would be too
because it was really a common space or
area
water water
and along those lines we also have a
question from zach brusk when a large
number of people begin living in space
what kinds of sports do you think could
be created playing in zero or low
gravity could we have something like
kiddich on the moon
see our episode space
sports which not to be confused with
space ports where he looked a bunch of
them for their system something will not
just in in zero gravity a lot of them on
low gravity plants but uh a place like
these hang glide uh the one that i love
though as an idea is orbital ring diving
and this is where you would jump off
either a space tower or an orbital ring
with like a
just a suit a mask and a parachute and
dive into the ocean this is survivable
if done correctly and i think that
people would absolutely do that i think
they would jump off an orbital ring into
the ocean
and in me it would survive too
all right niall asks isaac what is your
opinion on the ethics of genetically
modifying human genes and the dangers of
genetic engineering
um
genetic nigerian is actually really
dangerous uh i don't have an opinion on
on human genetic engineering
specifically though to me if it's
ethical to do it on on like plants or
animals in general then that would imply
it's not innately and unethical to
humans however all right
when you screw around with a biosphere
or an ecology in certain ways don't be
surprised you have big big effects you
know you do something that something
makes this plant much less likely to die
and now you're dealing with something
like we got behind us on our phone here
in the miscanthus field from the
previous occupants that we're going to
spend probably a year clearing out
because it's so rooted in there and it's
not native to local ecology
with humans you can go ahead and place
what ecology with sociology to right you
start playing with humans even a little
bit a human has just genetically been
modified to be one percent more
aggressive right
as a whole that that can have a huge
effect on things so uh
it is playing with jet fuel right not
just playing with gasoline or matches
jet fuel at the same time if you want to
get the space you need to use jet fuel
so i don't want to say it's
automatically wrong either right just
something to be done with caution
discretion
and transparency
gideon cornfield says i love your videos
you have helped me to look at the future
with more hope thank you gideon
pat the popper a problem with
self-growing habitats made of mushrooms
in particular is that we might need to
eat them the soup versus safety argument
would you like to comment
i think that's a very good one i know i
think a lot of these habitats would be
broken down afterwards like the self
going ones were made out of michael
blocks wins that we looked at this
thursday no wait that episode hasn't
come out yet
i thought maybe it happened
okay
so for people jumping ahead our
self-calling habitats thing features
something called microblocks that are
made out of mushrooms and there's a big
experiment here in cleveland that one's
coming out on
april 7th maybe april 7th so it's the
one i was last working on i just have a
vision of that so um
see that episode for
details stay tuned
anansi says watching your videos has
helped to expand the concepts in my
universe
thank you nazi
all right are you ready for a lightning
round five minute lightning round yeah
or so all right uh we'll see how many of
these questions we can pack in in the
last five minutes
the tardigrade does the limited amount
of useful energy in the universe make it
a zero-sum game for all civilizations
involved no uh whenever you're talking
about a limited size pi there's always
some way to change that around in an
extreme ultimate sense whenever you ever
find out anything theoretically there's
gonna be a maximum weight you can cut it
but in practice
these kind of zero-sum games went off
one variable and not something you could
say applies to all the ways you might
change it you get better at
miniaturization you find some way to get
out of the universes you find other ways
to control how quickly you're renewing
things right things can change don't
approach it from a zero-sum game
perspective
it might be but probably don't take it
as a given
now just a reminder these lightning
round questions are supposed to be 15 to
30 second answers so you can pack in a
whole bunch of them all right thank you
for everybody else put them in the
comments afterwards i'll try to get them
tomorrow
bg 101 uk this is the first time i've
managed to catch one of these live
streams during the event enjoying this
thanks even if it is a bit difficult to
hear with all the noise in the pub
you're very welcome to have uh enjoy
your drink
david hudson wow i finally got to a live
stream love your content have watched
every episode that's an easy question
answer thank you david
and the cryptic what sort of trees are
you planning to put in that orchard i've
got some apples and cherries in mine uh
us too and that one uh we're actually
trying a couple of each so you would
know the list better than me say what's
in there apple cherry peach nectarine uh
mulberry
not elevated mulberry mulberries
well your mom has some elderberries um
so we we're kind of trying like one to
two of everything yeah
spaceman what do you think about the
future ai religions
not i don't know uh what do you mean
like a computer worshiping a god or does
people watch me a computer
i you know again with future concern i
usually assume that a lot of these
things will happen
so probably the answer yes
if you think of a variation but the
answer is probably yeah
igor briskin what is your opinion on the
future of nuclear salt water rocket
engines in industrialization and
exploitation of resources in and out of
the solar system and thank you in
advance
this is the exact opposite where it's
one of those things where it's not used
but the whole bunch would be
simultaneously true it either gets used
a lot of what doesn't i'm very
optimistic about the value of nuclear
salt water rockets whether or not
they're ever actually the main main city
that we use is going to depend so much
on how we get that initial development
of technology we might say it's way
easier to just do like nuclear power on
the moon to make water fuels or aluminum
fuels there
all right floor horbeck have you ever
thought about if you haven't already
doing a live stream with another
physicist like sabine hassenfelder ryan
keating
mikey okaku neil degrasse tyson
no
i mean if i was on their show but i
don't i don't like to
i have a lot of friends who and there
are some of those people folks i know
obviously i don't really like the idea
of trying to answer questions
simultaneously them on my own show i'd
rather maybe do a panel with them
sometime but even then any of those
people you just named you know are more
enough for people to watch buying their
home too so they don't need me there
right vice versa don't you know big
pounds full of lots of people who are
interesting
unless you're interested in one-on-ones
yeah
captain stroon what do you think of
mitosis never occurring as a fermi
paradox filter imagine a habitable
planet with one single microbe on them
i don't know how it could be a
single-celled microbe across the entire
planet uh as the initial state i really
i think that
if it's not getting mitosis in there
then it just doesn't ever really get off
the ground and gets replaced next time
something like that pops up
and a question here from leandro
do you think that we'll ever get to the
point of most manufactured goods being
made 100
by automated machines and if so
what vertical will be first and how far
into the future
you never have a completely automated
civilization right there's because you
have things with brains already in play
right and if you're being replaced by ai
that's not really a 100 automated
anymore it just means that the thinking
person happens to be a computer of some
sort you have to have something at the
human level or above potentially to the
same difference that is your ultimate
quality control or creative source for
that so we're not aiming for a
completely automated system you might
need that
for like off ward mining in a different
solar system
but even then you probably would send an
ai too if you could
all right we have one here from polyneus
smirnovi
smirnovis sorry about that how many
years until ultra low temp processing
becomes ubiquitous or will be practical
at all also sending best wishes from
lithuania thank you um
probably for the ultra ultra low stuff
when we're talking about the landauer
limit pushing that out belief you know
to the point where it's having
multiple orders of magnitude better
proficiency like we see in the
civilization the entire series you
wouldn't have that until after all the
galaxies were gone because they always
got the ambient temperature of the tire
as to how long for ultra court in sense
of like running things at like 30
degrees celsius or something like that
um i mean in the next few centuries if
it is something that really is very
advantageous and easy to do
log or otherwise
all right
levi rivers says i have a question about
the biosphere of a colony if you do
discover something like a prion or an
ancient virus what does quarantine or
destruction entail
um
that's tricky uh you only have the one
ecosystem if you're living in a dome on
a different planet if you're on an
interstellar colony
uh you're kind of screwed if you want to
try to actually
do the uh you know andromeda style flash
five everything uh others you have your
separated colonized you know space stuff
is usually pretty easy to colonize
because i mean
as soon as you don't have everything
connected with one single dome you shut
the doors and you just go and vaporize
what's inside there if you need to or
you shut off your chance to figure out
what the problem is however
i suspect that that's more of an in
theory than in practice situation
because
people react you know react slowly for
our quarantine stuff and have a chance
to spread i think between the various
separate biospheres but uh i don't know
i really don't know all right down to
the last two here we have a question
from or a comment rather from the
dinosaur king 777 yo i love your videos
it's cool to hear you talk about and on
scientific concepts thank you very much
dance okay
and the last question for the day is
from rom dan do you think artificial
muscle wings backpack could be a thing
someday
um yes yeah actually just because there
was potential to have such a stronger
than a normal muscle contraction with
something artificial that you might
actually have something like an
ornithopter like we see in dune and
there's no reason that couldn't be jet
packed too
if you have that you know that power
supply that's ultra dense
that lets you walk around your own you
know power suit or extra credit suit
then yes i don't think he's why you
couldn't do that flappy wings thing
although i don't know that's really
optimal as opposed to say something like
a uh a jet that just sucked air in out
the back with wings on it for uh lift
that blue you know here they are at the
back i don't know that
strikes me as an option it might be
better but yeah i think it could
definitely be done and because it could
be done someone will do it anyway for
the same reason the hot air balloon
around the planet still even though
there's no reason to do that will they
use cake for their auto generation
it has many uses
all right if that's all of our questions
we'll go ahead and get signed up for
today thank you everybody so much for
joining us uh if you have questions that
didn't get answered please leave them in
the comment section i will try to get
them either late now tomorrow and if you
are hanging out afterwards and you see
questions please try to answer them too
if you know the answer in a polite
fashion obviously thank you everybody
for joining us and we will see you on
thursday
so that will wrap us up for the day i
want to thank everyone for joining us
and again if we didn't get your question
feel free to post as a comment below and
i'll try to get to it this evening
also you can continue the conversation
at any of the forums on facebook reddit
discord or our website isaacarthur.net
thanks for joining us and we'll see you
thursday
