on this show recent episodes and general
science Concepts and news we'll be
starting in just a moment and feel free
to put your questions right into the
chat for our mods to come in screen and
please try to keep them clear legible
and understandable as always we welcome
super chats to help support the show and
you can also find links to our websites
and other options in the episode
description with all that said welcome
and let's get
started good afternoon everyone and
welcome to science and Futures with Isa
Al's monthly live stream Q&A this New
Year's Eve December 31st 2023 as usual
we are joined by my co-host and wife
Sarah F Aral who will be asking
questions from the audience as you put
them in of me and I'll try to my best
answer as we can I think we probably mod
free because the holiday right now so
please try to leave them clear and
concise and easy to read things so that
they don't get lost in the uh queue with
that said let's go ahead and get started
with our first question well thank you
for including me on these for the last
several years and uh I actually wanted
to give a shout out first to one of your
viewers from ashula County that I ran
into in the grocery store over the
holiday and Marius told me that you were
the inspiration to becoming an
engineer that one of the cool things
about doing the show for years like this
is that you when I first got started
people would say hey I'm thinking about
majoring in physics should I do that and
now I've got folks who me saying hey I
don't know if you remember this for like
8 years back you convinced me a major in
physics and I just finished up my
doctorate and that is an awesome
experience so thank you thank for
everyone who has been with us for we're
our 10th year now so it's been a long
time and this is the we're in six years
into doing the live stream this is our
60th one and we skipped a few here on
there so thank you Marius and thank you
everyone Miami's last capitalist thank
you very much for your Super Chat Miami
Last capitalist says I will miss these
live streams but I'm glad I got to know
you through them Neil degrass and Tyson
isn't our personal astrophysicist you
are thank you well he's probably I would
say you is probably a better physicist
when it comes to resty than me but uh
thank you rob Hawk thank you for your
super chat from all of the sci-fi novels
you have read which device machine or
Gadget do you find to be the most
amazing and imaginative and best wishes
for
2024 uh amazing is a little trickier
than imaginative um I mean technically
there have been some novels for it but
either the Stargate from the Stargate
one Stargate hg1 series and or the movie
that's probably one of my favorite fixt
short devices because it keeps things
kind of grounded to the modern era uh
whil St you explore space and planets or
at least very force in Canada cuz that's
usually film The at uh as opposed to you
know this or that um or Quarry in
England or desert area in California
most of sci-fi takes place in those
three spots um but uh let's see the most
imagin device one of your viewers says
Be Me Up Scotty well yeah no I would
actually say the transport is probably
the exact opposite of that that's um the
transport and the replicator from Star
Trek are probably the worst devices to
have included in fiction cuz you've
probably heard the Transporters invented
so they didn't have to do the shuttle
footage all the time back and forth of
them flying and the replicator was meant
to be this cute little thing for letting
them uh you know bring and make eating
aarm but the problem is those are such
plot rending devices that uh you don't
really want to include things like that
in the show if you can avoid or in your
uh in your sci-fi the coolest device
um
maybe the the actual conj joinal drive
from alist R's Revelation space series
or the black sorry not the black or the
neutron star that's almost a black hole
that's one gigantic huge Stell Mass full
Quantum metal those are both just really
cool real science versions of things I
thought would be awesome Rob I thought
for a minute there we had him stumped
would have been the second time in all
of these years but he pulled it out on
camera anyway could utility fog or
programmable matter be some of some some
kind be used as a force field that could
stop bullets Premier would like to know
um yeah no I know force field is
episode probably like six years ago now
we did look at some of those options and
say in in physics there's not option for
force fields other than the actual
existing force fields we have like
gravity or electromagnetism but you
could do something to flex ionized
matter away with electromagnetic field
for instance but one of your options for
a shield is an actual Shield uh so for
instance a spaceship might have some
Thin panel it carries on with it that it
can just shoot out about a Kil from it
expand rapidly and let that soak up
damage and doesn't have to soak that
much damage off to deflect stuff and
even the vaporized remnant of it's going
to you know deflect beams or destroy
incoming missiles pretty well but you
could have something like utility fog
where all it did was just move quickly
and get in the way of the bullet uh the
problem is that for a lot of these
things they're only going to be good
against people with lower technology
than you because if you've got utility
far they can jump and get in the way
then their bullets probably can move
faster than utility fog can or could
include utility fog of their own to blow
those up and so forth so and you could
still have some kind of competing cycle
of all more versus Weaponry seem as we
often see in history though but uh I
would say just as a whole yeah that's
one of the options you have for utility
fog might be some kind of Cape that
could soak up bullets for you made out
of the stuff there's a lot of options if
you have small metal for those you don't
know utility fog is one of the nicknames
for smart matter which is basically
imagine the smallest piece of matter you
can make that was like an intelligent
robot something like the equivalent of a
cell for a human body but probably an
order of magude smaller that could move
around and connect with each other and
talk so it's just a tiny little Lego
block but it's a Lego block with its own
engine and ability to communicate so it
could just assemble into whatever you
want to in practice you might have an
assemble something that looked like an
apple but probably would not be an apple
because you probably would never get
anything that was down at the atomic
scale I think cellular level but maybe
smaller than a virus small cells not you
know
Adams Yoda what says Isaac Arthur the
nicken soft weapon from Larry Nan's Ring
World universe is my favorite little bit
of sci-fi technology among its charms is
the ability to project beams that rip
matter
apart n comes up a lot ofely good stuff
I mean the ring Ward is always going to
be my favorite they are but um you had a
lot of ones we had the uh I think I
don't know if he was the first one to
come out the idea but he had the
monomolecular whip concept where you had
one a sword that's like one tiny Adam
withth a cross and that would be so
sharp it could cut through anything mod
filament while he also had the standard
holes the general holes basically they
could absorb an infinite amount of
damage for one instant and they would
pause you in time so you didn't take any
damage that was a great way to have a
spacecraft hole that was realistic in
how it could absorb damage so basically
you'll free in time while it takes the
damage n was well I shouldn't say was I
believe he's still alive um you know he
is just a fascinating source of
information for so many ideas I was
actually the one of the scripts I just
wrote topop Eternal river that one is
something that he for suggested too so
very good well Timothy Kyper would like
to know um if it is generally accepted
that gravity causes time dilation and
there seems to be an alternating theory
that the time dilation is actually
causing gravity he wants to know what
your thought is on this debate um you
know that's one of those ones where you
can probably argue that is the other way
around like um was say is the universe
expanding or is everything inside it
Contracting and I say well you know it
could be either one of those um you
wouldn't have any way of telling if you
know a situation like that I'm not sure
I'd say that's the case with time and
gravity per se but I would stick to
treating it as gravity causes time to
slow down um you know space and time
contract around it so you could probably
make the argument that it was the other
way around uh that experiencing time is
what allowed that but the issue we have
is that gravity and time are both weird
little anomalies they they both only
seem to be One Direction uh whereas most
of things in nature can go you forward
or back as it were very easily uh we
don't necessarily want to assume that
they are super interconnected though
that's kind of like with the unified
forces thing we found that
electromagnetism and mag magnetism
electricity were the same thing or
electric force with the same thing and
we had electromagnetism and we said oh
wait that's the same as the weak nuclear
Force too now we combine that one then
we fin connected the strong force as the
Assumption as well we must be a to
connect all these together to include
gravity too and perhaps we may be able
to at sometimes but wishing something to
be the case doesn't necessarily make it
so I think sometimes we chasing Grand
unified theories a little bit too
enthusiastically you know you got to
let's see what the evidence says is the
actual case not try to assume it's the
case and build towards it tempting
though it is Escala says I think that
there are unknown forces in this
universe that are so outrageously
unimaginably complicated that we humans
just simply can't conceive it there's a
good chance of that yeah I mean it's to
some degree you expect stuff to be
simple although he say well I can't
remember maybe it was Einstein there's a
lot of things attributed to him that AR
actually things he said too though it's
something you can tell if it surv as a
theory if it's it's incredibly you know
simplistic when you want you see it the
answer turns out to be really
straightforward as personally really
insanely complicated like retrograde
Planetary Cycles was um you know before
they just decided to switch from over to
the cernic approach to planetary models
I said well yeah that could be it we
could say that you know something's
right in science if it's simple rather
than complex only problem is that's
that's letting poetry govern how you
want to approach these things there's
nothing simple about how you know vro
molecules work that we've tried modeling
these the the basic thing about them is
very simple they're running on these
electrostatic forces but how those
actually work out emotion poies of
systems um tends to be very complicated
sometimes they have very simple rules
they obey like chess is an emergent
property of human psychology which is
very complicated and the physical laws
of the universe which are pretty simple
in some ways it has nothing to do with
either of those but it is an Emer
property of them so we don't always want
to assume that um everything in the
universe conern to be very simple uh and
that's how we know it's right some of
the stuff may be insanely complicated
you know people would tend to assume
that Pi must have some uh we don't think
these these days you know some set
number of digits or be some perfect
ratio because that would make it more
beautiful and you know beauty is truth
and truth is beauty and I can't recall
off the top of my head who said that I
should be able to but I don't see a lot
of indication that that statement is
actually true U but you know i' be more
beautifully so gayen says there you have
an episode on colonizing the Sun have
you given any thought to an episode on
colonizing hot Jupiters um you know I
have though I should probably point out
that no one has ever DED me to do do
that one um I guess we did kind of do
one on making jupo a second son um that
was probably the hot jupo episode of
some degree too cthonian planets which
did not do well in the pole would have
been oh sorry konian planets would have
been the uh probably the hot chupo
episode um but for anyone who was
wondering colonizing the sun was one of
the occasions somebody made a bet at me
as to whether I could make an episode
and I I I I I decided I was going to
make that episode I could you actually
colonize a stall um the other one was
the search and rescue episode we did
high-tech search and rescue um somebody
had bet me if I could find a way to
cover the way to use a nuclear device
legitimately to use a nuclear bomb in a
search and rescue exercise um to help
find you know to help save somebody and
I didn't find a way I found four of them
I love that episode so I always like to
find excuse to use nuclear bombs to
solve problems and what episode was that
again Hightech search and rescue
Hightech search and rescue Christian
Carell thank you for your Super Chat
chat do antimatter Rockets have to be
thin and long as often depicted or is
there some design flexibility if we
invent better antimatter production and
storage um I mean the main reason to
making any ship thin and long this for
indell purposes is to cut down on the
stuff you're hitting as you go through
space um generally speaking you know we
would say the the ideal minimum withd
minimum radius for a um spin gravity
environment is about 250 met radius uh
because at that point was that diamer
yeah I check it one but uh that radius
is but you feel comfortable at less than
two rotations per minute doesn't cause
notuse any more than turning a chair
maybe twice a minute or turning around
the kitchen when makee you nauseous so
that's kind of your minimum diameter you
don't necessarily want to go much above
that if you can avoid that because the
wider you get the more stuff you going
to plow through at at you know High
fraction of speed of light and that's
the usual reason why we depi these
things as being um very long and narrow
um and then we usually tend to cheat
them with cylinders or cones because
there's no real assumption that like a
Navy ship they really need a prow on
them um as you see like Warhammer 40,000
where the ships all look like old ships
align or Cathedrals uh going through
space it's very autistic uh but not
really very um you're not really very
logical way to build a ship per say um
the for the purpose of the engine it
doesn't make any difference at all I
think with anti metal the biggest thing
would be wanting to have a nozzle of
whatever material you're using to
reflect gamma rays or what was coming
out the back of thing that was let you
kind of focus the beam a little bit so
you w wasting too much off the sides so
that's the biggest thing is you ideally
want your um Rockets you know propellant
to come out the back in a straight line
right behind you and the more spread out
it is the more it's sending off some of
that Force to either side of you uh
rather than helping to propel you along
so you want to minimize that as tightly
as you
can Clash says we often talk about
building large rotating habitats in
orbit but how exactly would you actually
get the materials needed to build them
up there into orbit whether from the
Earth or the moon or elsewhere um you
know a lot of depends on how good we get
at launching things like if you have an
orbit ring already up in space then you
probably do all your low orbit materials
right from Earth itself because Earth
has so much of it you know the asteroid
belt is a tiny fraction of the total
mass the moon has and the moon's mass is
18 what Earth has so you always going to
get more off of Earth than you all these
asteroids and moons um on the other hand
you have to pay way less actual fuel
costum stuff from the Moon to Earth but
uh you know I guess it would be the
example of it might be cheaper to get
something off of Antica in terms of how
much fuel it takes to cut it out of
there but if you had to transport that
whole way and you don't have any
actually there to walk you have to pay
10 times as much to actually employ
someone of those locations it might kind
of stop cutting that ability to have
that as a cheaper option
so with something like an orbital ring
where you're not really paying anything
other than maintenance to get stuff up
into space you mine stuff from down on
Earth without something like that and we
say an earlier era of space development
you're probably getting off the moon or
near Earth asteroid uh just because
that's strange it sounds getting
something you 100 miles up in the air is
harder than moving at a million miles
across empty space and so the the
question comes down to can I actually
dig out and mine and refine and and
build stuff especially you know matter
like a big metal plate off the moon or
an asteroid easier that can shove it up
through the old atmosphere and that's
one of those things where we just don't
really know until we have a chance to
actually start doing it on a more
industrial scale D craigan says hi all
from the UK who else is from a time zone
where they have rearranged the New
Year's Eve PL somewhat in order to watch
this last live stream
live uh statistically about half well
not quite half something like 40% of our
audience lives in the UK over East to
about Russia somewhere in Western Europe
or Eastern Europe and then uh most of
Mand lives in North America with a lot
of folks over in Australia and elsewhere
but uh our folks in Japan I'm trying to
remember the timeline if the DAT line is
uh which the date line Japan's on I
think they already had their new year so
for everyone who's over there happy New
Year already I think everybody I think
Iraq was 8 hours ahead when I was there
so happy New Year to everyone in Bagdad
or very shortly there afterwards in Deli
happy New Year
So Raven could robots take on lifelike
characteristics like cells and
respiration um very much so I think that
the thing to keep in mind is that when
we're talking about robots like back in
the day when Asma was playing around the
concept he he used the term CFE or
carbon uh ion ion Fe life forms to kind
of indicate that a robot was an ion
based life form and we were carbon based
well now we have semiconductors and we
say they were silicon based life forms
um but you know whether or not you're
built out of titanium or you know robot
made out of titanium or carbon or
whatever it is a robot would be a
machine P you know you're a purpose
built machine and a life form is by
default going to be a purpose built
machine whose purpose is principally to
stay alive right so as its main purposes
to stay alive and reproduce so you make
a v noyman probe like an astro chicken
um which be poll option Su thought that
was one of your favorites it is one of
my favorites um you know that would
Proby qualify as a life for I I have
problem saying how you would under a
biological definition uh you know say
that it wasn't unless you holding you a
very strict biological definition that
always something following the
biochemistry of or was alive which would
then have the problem with saying well
if you bump into alien life that's made
out of say geranium that automatically
isn't alive you know it's waving at you
as to have conversation and say well
you're not alive so I'm not going to
talk to you you know not sure that's
really going to be a good definition to
walk off of but yeah I would say
generally speaking U to to steal alive
from the Supreme Court we know it when
we see it I think with most things that
we qualify as alive we were heav part
time they are Trooper Nate says hi Isaac
I move that the term habitable only
apply to
atmospheres conducive to human life we
need to find a term for atmospheres
potentially capable of supporting any
life do you have thoughts um you know
there was always that Temptation
CU there was in Star they had the M
Class Planet which they always stayed
way away from ever explaining until I
think it was in Star Trek Enterprise the
you I was about to say the newer one but
you know 20 years ago that one um where
they they was some Wen Vulcan that I
can't remember what it was called but it
was unpronouncable but you know a planet
that's designed to actually allow a
human could well presumbly a Vulcan to
you know open up their helmet and
breathe and not fall over Dead 5 seconds
later um and uh in terms of what would
be an atmosphere we could survive on you
know if you got a good power supply in
your suit you could potentially be
recycling your own oxygen or you know
having a compressor running in your suit
that you got enough oxygen into you you
though the atmosphere was very thin um
as to what qualifies as a atmosphere
that life could live on uh we know it
doesn't have to be an oxygen-based
atmosphere because we have life forms
that don't of course uh breathe oxygen
that they in fact are poisoned by it so
um you almost have to say any atmosphere
that was high enough to actually allow a
good amount of liquid states to Aire so
that might just be a pressure region um
you know above I don't know 1,000
pascals and it's good to go um then
there will one was too high to the point
where you really could not realistically
have much way normal chemistry going on
because the pressure was so high things
tend to turn into crystals too easily
turn into Metals F you know that might
be the upper end of that however I think
this is one of those ones where we
really can't put that defining line in
there until we've actually found a whole
bunch of actual planets and you know
looked at them because we did this game
before with our own planets in the 20th
century those on we had to look at was
the 8 sl9 planets our solar system and
we actually had more than that in the uh
19th century we included four the
asteroids as planets for a while uh
series Vesta Palace and Juno I think um
those were planets for a while and and
uh what we found is that we divide
everything into rocky planets and gas
giants plus Pluto and that really wasn't
a very good definition because Jupiter
is very not like Saturn they are very
far pus platco but they're the only two
that are gas giants Uranus and Neptune
are quite dislike too but they're ice
giants and then we got earless rocks and
Earth and Venus and it's it's you know
these are not the only categories of
plat you find out in the Galaxy at large
either so we need more examples for we
do a t you know a real tonomy of planets
well I would like to give a quick shout
out to the moderators unfortunately uh
everyone is or fortunately I guess
depending on for them is off celebrating
the new year with their family and
friends but uh it's definitely been a
huge help to me getting uh some
assistance from my skill in syry over
the last couple years while we've been
doing this and I'd like to thank them
for tuning in so frequently and helping
make sure that this chat and live stream
runs smoothly yeah and just in general
we have a lot of moderators on all all
social media fors not just Discord but
they're both moderators at but like
Facebook Reddit Etc and uh those folks
volunteer their time tons and tons of
their time and it is you know say how do
you say thank you to people who just
keep doing that year after year and the
answer is you just keep saying thank you
because is one of those things
where shows like this they can run with
without their social media forms you
don't have to have them I have a lot of
friends who are shows that don't have
them but I don't think all show could
run without those because so much of
what we do is that talk back and forth
with the audience to find up ideas that
are fascinating to us all and to discuss
those and you know probably about half
our episodes have at some point been
conversations I've had with people in
one of our chats or forums just
discussing something bringing up talking
about it more so um without those
healthy forms or people who moderate
them I don't think show would really
exist I thought for a moment we were out
of questions but I saw them continuing
to pop up on your screen and I couldn't
figure out I had to uh reboot mine here
so uh here's a question from TS I wonder
if building structures from neutron
stars including the Stars themselves
being ordered internally as one case and
structures with fine-tuned gravitational
regions around them I guess if that's
possible
maybe you have a lot of love on the pie
tie today it's I you know for the last
time I never actually wear this sun out
in public I did a few times but after
I've been wearing out live stream for
about a year I was thinking I should
probably order me myself a spare one I
couldn't find it again it was it was no
longer around I you know they must have
had a b order on it and so I stopped
wearing it out to any events and
thankfully my wife had actually got me
some ties that I lot more compliments on
too anyway um so this one has been
hanging up very carefully off the side
are only getting used for the show for a
long time or for since interviews um I
out the last stre I can start wearing in
public again but I didn't want to travel
and risk lusian so can you well I guess
the question with neutron stars I
mentioned earlier with interesting
technologies that in alist Reynolds
novel Revelation space they come across
a neutron star that uh has been
basically very carefully imploded to be
right above the line to be in a black
hole and all organized into one gigantic
computer uh computronium the densest
state of of computerization they could
come up with and um I'm not quite sure
how you would pull that off but it's a
fascinating idea um is that you could
kind
of we won't go into too much on that
right now cuz it read the book read it's
one of the best ones out there he'll
discuss it more there but if you can
play with the fine if you can play with
the gravitational constant if you can
tune uh any of the the actual physical
constants and we talked about reality
manipulation two weeks ago there's a lot
of things you can get around you know to
doing that would just seem otherwise
insane or impossible as an
example um your best AR you going to get
something like neutronium which is you
know that condensed neutr state of
matter CU that can actually absorb a
neutron that's that's how we actually
get things like phosphorus is when a
implosion where supern is going on the
matter is so dense that it can actually
absorb neutrinos and um so you can
potentially you have an armor made of
neutron stall but of course you couldn't
have that be more thick than one or two
atoms or you'd be trying to carry around
like a million tons of armor on you
which yeah not work very well um and so
if you could find some way to arrange
all those atoms and just have them stay
there like that uh that would be an
awesome thing if they were just one atom
layer thick but those are the kinds of
things if you could play with physical
constant you could probably get away
with especially in case like that you
might say well I'm going to car around a
million tons of noral but it doesn't
actually weigh a million tons it only
weighs nothing or like one pound uh cuz
I've played around with the
gravitational const in that area and
I've played around with the inertial
constant area so I can actually move it
there's a lot of things you can do if
you can actually play around with those
constants and um that you could do
things like decide I am going to go
build myself a a bunker in the middle of
a neutri you know big Neutron stall and
no one will be able to find me because
I'm buried down inside there and somehow
not crushed down to uh you know to a
singularity in the process so so and we
don't you know you cannot rule out that
things like that might actually be
possible though we have no idea at all
how we would actually manipulate a
physical concept well we have a super
chat from mooki thank you uh mooki
and um we seem to be having a lot of
issues with the thing it keeps on
popping up an ad well it keeps popping
up an ad and then getting rid of the
chat which I don't know why it's doing
that YouTube has gotten obnoxious about
ads and re before the record I've
definitely put a lot more ads on own
show because YouTube basically tells you
do it or else uh more friendly than that
though to be fair um you there are so
many more ads on YouTube anymore and
everywhere it's it's OT Brian Silver
says question will my cyber truck be
able to perform autonomous snowplowing
or will I need an autonomous bot with
snowplow AI added on to drive it that's
a good question I wonder if it's snowing
somewhere well there's always that
question um and this is goes back to an
ASO things too was uh at that time
computers were huge and expensive and
the idea was well would you make you
know 20 different vehicles or or devices
that had a robot brain in them that only
did one thing or did you make a humanoid
robot or you make a robot that could go
operate any of these devices and if
you're going to make a robot to go
operate each devices you make it look
like human so the human could still use
those tools you have to re-engineer your
robot you know all your tools to fit
that nonh humanoid robot um in practice
what we're find is that it's actually
probably going to be cheaper in most
cases to purpose build a robot with a
purpose built brain um you know if
you've seen Total Recall the original
the original Total Recall with
swartzenegger they got the Johnny cab I
think it is it's a little humanoid robot
that sits in the driver seat of uh of a
car and does the driving for you and I
think we use a similar piece of stock
footage when we talk about automating
cars a lot on the channel it's got
little robots that L the wheel and of
course you would never waste that seat
on a on a robot that just sits there um
you you want something get out and like
be valet and like move your bags for you
um maybe then you'd have a humanoid Mo
but why I have them for themselves up in
the trunk um so I think in most cases
your autonomous snowplow would be an
actual snowplow that land itself though
that's kind a hard with tractors cuz the
tractors use the approach here's this
big mobile engine that you have the PTO
on that you can or the fun load then you
can goad and attach various tools to and
um
like we have a very long driveway and
live in area that sometimes gets 2T of
snow at once so we uh have to plow with
a tractor here and um oh my 8-year-old s
has to go do the porch but uh you know
little kids are great for moving snow um
but you get the tractor out you have to
push that with a bucket of course you
can change the bucket out for forklift
Etc um and so yeah you might decide I'm
going to get a a robot built into my
tractor that can do all these things for
me instead and I think that's just going
to come down
to which is faster and easier to build
and doesn't require people to replace a
lot of their equipment too and that
might be a different case in a car cuz
people are used to replacing their cars
every 5 to 10 years uh people on other
hand drive their tractors implements
those things a lot in order than the
people were using them there's a lot of
tractors and service still to this day
that are older than I am and I mean I I
got to finish more out back that's I
think if not older than me older than my
wife it's it's it's an old one and it's
in beautiful condition still it's SP me
backing up in a tree the one time yeah
about that yeah well it was it was
looking I was being so careful with one
thing I was paying attention too I
didn't pay attention when backing off
wonderful wonderful advice anyway
Christian Carell thank you for your
Super Chat which types of Radiators work
best for Starships you know in case you
back up into a planet now I've looked
into Dusty plasma radiators for avoiding
debris but is it actually practical and
efficient
um possibly so
the there was a space uh station I saw
one time where I had the radiat was
coming out the side of the uh space
station that was spinning it wasn't like
a non-rotating structure the and the
gravity is higher the further out you
get from something it's spinning so if
you got one gravity on the inside and
you got radiators are sticking out at
you know twice the distance that then
they got three Gs of gravity in them and
uh you could certainly pump liquids
through there I think in some ways you
might set them up as a very nice
radiating system you have big long fins
extending that way but generally
speaking I don't know why be doing
maintenance anything that was spinning
around on the 3G of of gravity um seems
like that would caus a lot of of
problems um you want probably I would
say your your favorite place to do
maintenance in space is about one tenen
of a g because then things tend to move
where you expect them to uh but they
don't move very fast um it's always nice
to know which direction down would be uh
really
those in a into solo spacecraft moving
in a high fraction of light speed I'd
rather do my heat radiation behind the
ship so you extend out and and again
you're not accelerating very fast in
these things especially if you're in
Cruise mode you're not accelerating at
all so you extend out some big long te
it might be miles and miles long like
you could track a nuclear reactor or 100
miles behind your ship if you want to
just use that power cable as a tedler to
it then reel it back in so you know when
you actually need to slow down so you're
cutting down the radiation you get same
for radiator modules why not just send
them out way way behind you um if it's
not a very good thermal conductor
material that you using or if you had to
pump it down you know through
pressurized pipes obviously that puts a
limitation on your length to some degree
but by and large you don't want to do
anything to increase your
cross-section and so you could also put
the out as big thin fins coming out the
side as a heat scene too because if it's
you know this thin but really wide and
long as it's cross-section it's not
going to interet that much material
either but you also have to be worried
about just general way on to your
radiation I think it's too thin out
there in space to so I would generally
say running out behind you is the best
place uh I wouldn't want to I mean you
could put them in front of you for that
matter too they'll take damage but then
you can bring an individual piece of
radiator and recycle it and then they
are taking damage to your ship so that's
another option is using as forward
shooting plus
radiat Matt schaer says congratulations
on all of your successes this year and
thank you for the hard work and all the
best in the coming year thank you and I
think that brings us to
the mid break and few more questions
when we come back we have a break and
we'll see you in about 3
minutes Welcome to our mid live stream
break and while we'll grabby a drinking
a snack make sure to get any questions
into our mods for the second half of the
show as mentioned this is going to be
our last live stream for a while we may
do some in the future but I think I'd
like to move away from a monthly
scheduled event and it was starting to
get to be as much an Endeavor as making
an entire normal episode so I decided
I'd honestly rather do one of those
we might do one quarterly or consider
doing interviews at some point but I
like my video essay style you can still
ask me questions in the comments on
videos and patreon or various social
media fors or email me at isaac. author.
youout gmail.com with YouTube spot as u
tube as you've probably noticed we had a
good deal more episodes in November and
December and have many for January too
more than we normally released and
mostly that was was me having a bit of a
riding bug after finishing the
three-hour for me Paradox compendium
where I did a number of shorter episodes
and indeed some of those got released
for that episode
did of course a short episode for me is
still about 20 minutes so what it mostly
indicates is that I thought I was
wanting to ride a lot of topics
particularly after those image pors we
started doing last year and lacked the
stamina for riding eight 30 plus minute
episodes a month but I'm thinking our
new average will be 6 to8 episodes a
month plus five or six 60-second short
videos as mood takes me especially as
the various bonus episodes over on
nebula start hitting their one year mark
I love nebula and like having exclusive
content there and the various extended
editions of episodes from 2020 and 2021
will remain exclusively there I think
but I want those other episodes once
they've been up there for a year to come
over to YouTube for everyone else to see
and the general consensus from folks on
nebula and patreon as best I can tell is
that they like the bonus content too but
all happy with just having Early Access
every episode comes out there a few days
early and the nebula monthly exclusives
are there for 12 months for anyone
wondering about the shorts I am not
planning on any more compilations at
this time since YouTube lets us make
playlists for them now and I do have
those up on Tik Tok and I'm getting them
up as reals on Instagram in terms of
contacting me I am really not on either
of those platforms there I flat outlo
Tik Tok but it's a chance to reach more
folks with these ideas I'm better about
checking the more traditional social
media and Discord obviously I've got
some time restraints on answering
correspondence but I try to vote
sometime every day to that and I'm
grateful for it too it's how Min and
episode idea emerged and it also has
often sheared me up I have a genuinely
awesome audience and one that many other
creators are very jealous of I'd
originally just planned to do a few live
streams as an experiment but 60 live
streams and over 5 years later it seems
strange to think of as a temp temporary
thing the bonus sci-fi Sunday episode
experiment is just a bit older itself I
know Sarah and I have both enjoyed it a
lot and there are some of you who have
been here nearly as often as we have and
always had good questions and comments
those I will miss greatly and I may do
an occasional scripted Q&A at the end of
regular episodes too where I can keep
the answers nice and concise for
everyone out there thank you for tuning
in as we head into the New Year I hope
you're still enjoying our show and
looking forward to year 10 because I
know I am thanks for tuning in this New
Year's Eve and now let's get back to the
show and back to more of your
questions
got to back out of course I did so I
have this little sign in myself that
tells me that the the uh you know
mission is actually over and it comes of
little signs say oh it might be broken
and that's told me to remind me that was
time to turn off and get back to the
episode so oh anyway thank you for uh
beinging with us during the extended uh
you know Mission and welcome back to our
second half and we'll get to more your
questions now well we had a follow up on
one of the questions from earlier
actually and Yoda said what says ancient
Greeks were very bothered by irrational
numbers like pi and square root equals 2
so they seem to have already come up
with the concept that truth equals
Beauty yeah know that's that's a good
example there is I think it might just
be we tend to be irritated by something
who doesn't have a good pattern to it
either and a lot of times you know I I
would never suggest you could to The
Habit assuming the answer can only be X
cuz doesn't seem simple but a lot of
times the so when you when you get it is
is actually a pretty simple one so a lot
of times when something is the main
effect or a couple main effects it's not
very many driers that are causing this
or that thing to occur so on the flip
side you you know you can't constantly
go looking around to try to find what we
what little adjustment factor I could
put on this equation that's going to
smooth over the problem that's been done
a lot and has often caus us to go down
rabbit holes that we didn't need to go
down to in size Isaac BAU thank you for
tuning in in today he says how can you
stay so optimistic about the future
despite all of the bad news in the world
uh you know the weird things I never
thought of myself as a particularly
optimistic person to people get saying
out the show all the time um when I was
in the service uh the army people
usually in my unit tended to think of me
as being kind of on the cynical side
although also would describe me as very
cheerful and I think that what it comes
down to is I'm so used to expecting the
worst case scenario that whenever
something good does happen I am cheered
up by that you know hope for the best
prepare for the warp that way you're
rarely disappointed and often pleasantly
surprised I think that was my motto for
a long time um the flip side of that
though is that when you spend so much
time you know you when you have
something unfortunate come up when you
have a difficulty come up or a worst
case scenario come up you can f up and
do a little feto ball and cry and wait
till it's over uh or you can actually
try to figure out a way to deal with it
and when you get enough practice of
dealing with them you see enough being
dealt with um you do start getting a
little bit more optimistic in general I
think just because you start realizing
those you know not every problem
necessarily has a solution but uh you
can usually find something that will at
least mitigate the problem a little bit
and when
you when you start feeling that almost
every problem can be solved with enough
hard work and effort and brains I think
that does tend to make you feel a lot
more optimistic about civilization cuz I
know a lot of people are hard wles or
you know
put a lot effort on things and have a
lot of brains often all in the same
package and so yes it's not that I think
of humanity as being wonderful people
who are always working for our best
interest no it's that techically there
are a lot of good people who work pretty
hard to try to deal with our problems
and they've got a pretty good track
record so far in my opinion however a
bad life can seem on a day-to-day basis
um remember two things first any
journalist will flat out tell you
honestly these days they are told to put
out bad sounding news and to phrase
things that way because it gets better
ratings people click on it they don't
like it they kind of have to do it that
way um you know you can literally choose
the phrasing on a video and I try not to
do this uh so that it sounds more
pessimistic and people are angry and
people click on it so one you will be
actively brainwashed and they will
freely tell you they are doing that to
make it sound worse so you will click on
it keep that in mind when looking at the
water a lot of good things are actually
happening not just bad ones and two life
is way better nowadays than has ever
been before by any objective you know
measure maybe not for one given
individual but for people as a whole
life is just way way better in almost
every possible regard sometimes people
will say other than that but they're
simply being Dishon themselves when they
say that this end of 2023 is a good year
we had that hard spatch through Co but
things are improving again and they're
going to be even better in 2024 and
it'll be even better in 2025 and maybe
2026 will be a little harder easier than
year before that but generally speaking
it going to keep getting better as long
as we keep putting effort in trying to
make it better and for me that makes a
lot more easy to wake up in the morning
cheer for I'm going to get something
done that's going to actually matter and
last and you know feel
accomplished Richard Catlin asks what
would be the upper limit in Mass for a
ship that could enter a planet with an
atmosphere without burning up the
planet
um you know
I'm but I will say if you figure out
what the actual temperature that the
atmosphere has to uh hit to get like the
Gene's escape velocity or the escape
velocity of the planet uh if you know
that temperature uh then you can figure
out how much energy the atmosphere would
need to be at that temperature and you
figure out how much kinetic energy that
ship would need to have to have that at
and thus you would know what Mass it
would have at a re-entry normal re-entry
speed so I off the top of my head I want
to say the or atmosphere weighs 10 to
the 18th kog that might be off by an
order of magnitude or two uh and for
something to leave the atmosphere have
to have a similar amount of energy to
whatever was you know going into the
atmosphere on WE entry was slowing down
so probably let's see
10 probably somewhere on the auto of 10
to 18th or 10 to 19th
kilogram it's a lot of mass that's like
a a billion billion
kilograms we have a few good wishes here
and happy New Year from Australia the
UK um India
and a question from
sonabella hi Isaac does the universe
follow math laws or is math how we
describe the
Universe um that's a question that I
know mathematicians who argue about so
I'm not going to weigh in with an
official opinion on that my own thought
is that math is a construct of humans um
in the sense of like one two three four
numbers like that but that the you know
that math is not a arbitrary thing
either
um kind of with that beauty and Truth
thing e you all who people say well math
is a fundamental
language um no I I wouldn't say so you
know if you're good at math you'll very
good at composing
music I've known a few mathematicians
who were good musicians but many who
were not too so we want to be kind of
careful what poetic descriptions there
um I think that the universe itself
follows uh principles that be described
mathematically um and that a different
Universe would probably also follow
principles that we descri mathematically
and probably by the same math but that's
that
is you know speculative because we don't
have another Universe to look at and
check that out I think this is an
interesting question from Asma of Clark
would a robot made of smart matter need
a solid skeleton to provide structure
and allow faster movements without
overheating it's a very good point I
would tend to say Yes um or it wouldn't
necessarily need to have it but that
would be the way that you would probably
want to do it um we talked about that in
the smart manner episode and we saw like
the um was it the
T3000 in uh in tomin Genesis the one
where they turn John Conor into a bad
guy um CU screw the franchise um but uh
I'm not happy with the way that
franchise went after uh the second movie
to be honest um what was I talking
about robots so an endoskeleton is handy
thing to have for a lot of reasons and
when you're doing small metal you that
robot was made out a bunch of the typ
it's a small metal and uh it doesn't
have you know an actual skeleton a case
like that when you're dealing with small
metal it's a bunch of little robots that
connected together by you know reaching
out holding a hand or something like
that they're not actually being held in
place by fundamental physical forces as
strong as the bonds between say
molecules would tend to be so the bonds
are a little bit weak or same as our
cells those are not really super strong
it's a lot easier to tear you apart than
it is say a big thing of Steel um so so
if you're whole bunch of little robots
you might be have a stronger Bond but
then normal cells do but you're not
going to have a stronger Bond as you
know a titanium endoskeleton would so if
you're looking for strength in case like
that you probably want to do it that way
same as we're talking about little tiny
Nanobots they could theoretically take
things apart atomically and build more
you know of themselves and steal out of
that but they'd be much more likely to
build a gigantic ceramic kilm dump metal
into that and you know use those metal
ingots or whatever to make more of as
opposed to doing it as a you know postal
process so that be faster I had a
question pulled up and now I've got the
chat do hickey
um buggy well I was vacation at YouTube
I it wants to sell me
something
um would it another question from Asos
Clark would it be more efficient to live
on one giant Birch planet or on multiple
smaller
ones
um I would it be more efficient is a
tricky question
um the thing about a bch plant is you
have to you know the idea is that You'
be slowly building a gigantic shell
around an existing black hole you might
feed more stuff into it you might decide
to feed your whole galaxy into it but
when you're doing that feeding process
you're get a lot of energy out of that
as well so you have to you you want
waste that energy You' be using it so
you probably only pumping matter into
that at the rate your civilization needs
that
energy um
so it's it's not so much that it's an
efficient structure ver inefficient one
as well that it's a late stage
structure um but something you build way
down the
road um I would say that living on
individual plant though is never really
going to be very efficient in general
you gravity Wells what my FAL Kane said
is if you got all the effort of escaping
gravity Wells you shouldn't go around
settling new ones you you go to rotate
your habitats it makes more sense that's
probably going to be your most efficient
structure so y j said since rotating
habitats don't actually have gravity do
they not move with the air in them or um
most of the air with them or anyone who
hasn't thrown himself toward the ground
in the right way right I I have a
Graphic that our friend Ken yor had put
together that actually will visibly show
this if you look into one of our roin
habitat episodes I tend to use it a lot
but the thing to remember is that when
you jump up on a Rin habitat you're
still moving forward and so is the shell
so you go basically like that the floor
again um you jump up in the air or you
handang yourself in the air it is
exactly like being on this planet with
one minor tweak and it's based on how
wide it is here on Earth we have crosis
forces from the planet spinning it spins
quite fast like 1 th miles an hour and
that means that if I send any kind of
projectile missile up through the air
you know and then back down again it
isn't going to land quite straight ahead
it's going of cved out to one side or
another depending on you know how fast
it was going and uh which direction was
moving North or South hemisphere uh this
actually G was a bit of problem during
the uh conflict between Britain and O te
with the folkland islands is the
missiles were targeted for the Northern
Hemisphere and they weren't weren't
aimed right in the southern hemisphere
so they're missing their targets um or
Le so I've heard um but that's that same
force is in play on a space station
that's rotating too so you're not going
to land exactly right back down on the
ground again you're going to be slightly
off now if you would jump you up and
down on one just you mean as a normal
human at normal speed you're going to
need like a tiny little ruler and
calipers to find out how much you were
off by see as you would on this planet
but at a bigger distance it can matter
other than that you jump up in the air
you go right back down again it's just a
rotating fa of reference you have to
think about what you're doing that time
too and remember that you're both
turning you have a NAA it's
like now you're driving out a car and
you go out a sharp corner I pull you
into the back seat from the front seat
you you know your seat disappears I pull
you back away from your door or seat or
up the a you are going to fall back down
towards that window you're not going to
float in the a because you still have
your noal to deal with and it can be
hard to visualize it sometimes but it
really is what happens now if I pop open
a magic warm hole and dump you right
into the middle of thing where there's
no you know spin gravity it's going to
take a long time before little bits of
brownie emotion start forcing you into
the air which will push on you and start
giving you in Ora and bringing you up to
that gravitational amount but for the
most part that's kind of the same thing
that applies here if I open up a warm
hole right over orth you know does it
take time for Gravity to reach out and
grab you and pull you down since gravity
moves at the speed of light and that is
an almost impossible question answer
because we don't have the pop theory of
quantum gravity or warmes yet but no
when you jump up habitat you go right
back down again just like you on a
planet well we have a super chat from
Alexander pachev if you cannot build an
O'Neal cylinder in orbit would it be
feasible to build it on Earth float it
high onto the atmosphere like a hot Air
Balloon by heating the air inside and
then use Rockets to get it into orbit um
just may that time on the live stream we
had the vacuum raccoons instruments um
which was supposed to be a vacuum
Rockets but I got boted
typo and it's called a raccoon you mean
the the computer auto corrected oh right
yeah there there's something called a
raccoon which is where you have a
balloon that's got a rocket on it and it
got misspell and you know it's a you
could theoretically have that uh instead
of being a balloon filled with you know
helium it could be a a a rigid structure
that was a vacuum inside thus even more
buoyant and it's called a vacuum
raccoon and uh I always we all calling
that that now it's almost never actually
refenced anyway so I heard vacuum racu I
could fig out what the heck that was
supposed to be out one the questions um
but could you float something up like
that and the answer was it would have to
be a really big space station one
probably wide enough to actually be up
in above the atmosphere because if you
got thick hole PL on that it's still
going to have a density more than a
like um a has a density of about 1.41 kg
per cubic meter steel is about 5,000
times that so if you have a steel
plating it needs to be 1 millimet thick
for every meter of air you've got no
thicker or it's going to be the same
density as air and won't float and then
you need to lower that even more to get
to float up into the high atmosphere
with things start dropping out to about
1,000 for the normal pressure there's a
reason why we can't get many balloons up
much above like you 30 Mi um
but I would say you wouldn't really have
a problem building that up in orbit
anyway you set up the big sheets on and
and you can even bend them up in space
if you want to it's not that hard to
bend metal um but you just send up the
the whole plating and then you assemble
it up there um like a big Set of
Legos so we have quite a few more
questions here I'm going to try to get
us through as many as possible we have a
a short question from interdimensional
demon hi hi Isaac Arthur what types of
Mega structures would a hive mind
use oh my it depends on what kind of
hive mind they have a gigantic computer
hive mind it probably use lot solo to
computers if it is a just a regular hive
mind probably the same kind of we would
use except like if you're a high mind
that has a maximum radius of say 30
miles uh that you can really have best
connectivity over to your um I know
nodes uh or slave mines um you know then
you probably don't build habitats more
than 30 Mi wide if you got the
technology for it so um and then the
course question be why would you you
know use your hive mind your actual
species you might actually have a
species that is made of Hive mines of
thousands of Mines but they have a
population of billions so there's like a
million Hive mines um beyond that see
how episode Hive mins for more
discussion of Hive mindes Kevin zala
says in theory if an astronaut could see
millions of bioluminescent
microorganisms who have become adap aded
to outer space could it look like an
ocean of light of
sorts um yes I I I I'm trying to think
of how you have bioluminescent things
floating around in space what they'd be
bioluminescent for but uh you could s
the engineer or something do that that
might kind of pretty think you like the
little pools of uh Biol and fungi on the
moon now maybe a different kind of
Northern Lights yeah it's a definitely a
cool one there a thought Biol
bioluminescent space
lights
um aerot
totis scordilis in Baxter's manifold
time future humans constructed Dyson
likee structures around super massive
black holes for generating power and
perhaps computation would that be
possible under known physics Baer is
usually pretty good about keeping his
science good and hard um and I I'd
recommend for an example earlier we were
talking about um different gravitational
con uh you know um constants his Nel
raft which is kind of like the first
book of the Z the sequence or second I
can't remember how it quite goes on the
chology that's a really good one to look
at but I don't I mean I have read
maniford but uh back was great for
science but I don't really like his
style of his proos so I usually I read
his books one time so I don't really
remember the details as much as I do
ones I reread a lot like uh asthma clo
so I cannot recall that specific Mega
structure but just in general with maore
if he puts it in there that science
usually solid we have someone only
caught part of a comment about the
raccoon in space they said they must
need more
sleep vacum raccoon I've never going to
forget that I've been looking for excuse
to make an episode called vacuum racon
episodes too thank you be for your Super
Chat and I think this is a raccoon
dancing on the
screen I have to check on
the um we have a a question here from
Mr uh Mr beay Isaac do you think that
humans could coexist with truly Sapient
AI or would we have to have
intermediary
intermediaries or even segregation um
you know that that's one of those
impossible to answer questions but I
like to think that we could get along
with anything else that was uh also
Sapient like us that it is a reminder
that you you know we we will say well if
I get to know these people better it's
got the Star Trek notion we'll all get
along and sometimes in history that's
not really the case a lot of times
civilizations a lot of cultural
differences have got along best when
they just kind of met at the Shared
River to exchange things and didn't
really try to have too much of their
conversation so um it depends on having
You Know instrumental goals and in goals
that are compatible with each other's
existence they like what they want to do
but if they know if they want to build a
gigantic telescope to uh look at a
different you know Galaxy that's
compatible with us we could probably get
along if they want to mot us all off so
that that's not compatible and so you
just don't know what that would happen
to be at the time but I think so I tend
to think that the thing about artificial
intelligence is we still tend to think
of it as these humanoid robots or a
humanoid level mind when artificial
intelligence is as wide a category as
intelligence itself is so one AI might
be a bee or an ant and another AI might
be a whale brain another thing might be
a plane sized brain that was a million
times smaller than we were and all these
with different focuses of what they
interested in so it's just such a huge
category that you can't speak to what
what would all relationship with AI be
cuz I saying what would all relationship
with animals be I like well
hippopotamuses or or or bees or or
kittens very different
thing so I'm laughing over here because
um Escala says is it possible that my
dryer is a time machine I put in nine
pairs of socks and only eight and a half
come out inquiry minds want to know all
folks know that space who strangely
inside uh trials they steal socks uh
and they steal socks and sometimes
they'll appear weeks months later used
says Happy New Year's from Albania yeah
and dreamer says I love this show thank
you life advice as a new parent if you
want to have a much easier life of
laundry it's you can have one washer but
get two dryers get like a stackable dry
right next to it it makes life so much
easier especially when they run through
their uh belts
regularly Dane Belling thank you for
your super chat I I just saw that you
had given us two of them thank you very
much he wanted to say that getting the
flu and covid back to back has given me
a lot of time to catch up on older
episodes that I hadn't seen yet I just
wanted to say thank you for all of the
hours of content that youve made and
happy New Year well thank you and I hope
you're feeling better soon I hate
catching two colds of virus in a row I
think I have a congestion in my ear
right now which is kind of amusing
because s was off the side of me trying
to talk to me uh we had a mic up a
little bit loud for a while so I could
hear her better but um it is never fun
getting colds in the winter time and
then getting another one just soon
getting better so I hope you're all
feeling better and uh get well soon
Patrick dunan says I can't believe this
show has been going for 14 years I think
that's a a Miss nowhere that is well if
you look at um if you look at YouTube it
claim the channel was made in 2012
that's when I made the email account
that I I I the channel was used from I
posted something there though it was
like you cuz at the time was YouTube was
literally post your own video and they W
like big channels it's that like the ALS
challenge at the time yeah no I where I
I dumped water on you know about that
ice water and I explained first how um
it was it's not on there any what't you
to see it my Facebook you'll see that
and my Facebook you can go look back
through that but the ALS challenge there
uh was to uh dump salt water on sorry
dump water on your salt and I was well I
was explaining putting some salt in
there how you could change you know the
temperature of the water would melt or
thigh but that whether it had a couple
ice cubes or not I had to make a science
lesson this is before the channel was
out there and I went outside and uh you
know my cat flax is walking along by me
and we still have the same Cat by the
way but uh he comes in you try to place
the lighting to dump this water on my
head and on the video clip all you see
is uh I dumped the water on my head
start curing I I bleeped it out and the
cat just runs he was exp like why did
you he had no idea I was playing D water
over my head I assume there but there's
a couple of videos like that or like
when I was going what the local levies
the ballot were going to be because I'm
the uh chairman of the board of
elections locally so I was always keep
track with the ballots were um and uh
the Aon that used to uh hang on on my
pite feed Cheerios there were a handful
of videos like that up and for the
earliest subscribers to the channel back
when there was only like four or five
videos and there was no channel would
actually remember when those videos were
still up and those were from like 2012
and 13 and ear 14 but canonically the
first episode show is the 2014 September
17th uh Mega structural summary video
and everything before that got deleted
off there that was only half of
Patrick's uh comment his other half is
Happy New Year I wish to ask what are
the upcoming plans for the National
Space Society is an O'Neal cylinder
Construction in the works I I wish I
could say it was in the works but no
we're not building one at the time
everyone there would love to though um I
think we the next big event we have
coming up will be we always do our our
um International Space development
conference on the last week and last
week and weekend of May and that's the
next big event we have coming for that I
know there's some other events coming up
locally at this or that chapter hold you
can see that on the website which is ns.
org um but at the moment they big focus
on that that's going to be in La this
year so we're having more of a scii
theme and uh I need to talk to Tony and
see what the who the actual guest R
that's going to be so should be very
exciting I will mention on the channel
as we close to it so kind with those new
Yos things though mardock GK OB says
thank you for your Super Chat by the way
if the idea that gravity is weak because
it affects other universes is true might
Dark Matter Simply Be aggregate Gravity
from other
universes probably not although before I
get off on that we don't build space
stations we do two different contests
that have about 20,000 students
participate them in every year where
they design their own space stations and
uh I am one of the judges for that now
which kind of fun you get to meet all
these high school or even middle schools
who build these space station design
and some will come over yeah they're
very ambitious uh I mean a lot of them
you see s similarities there tends to be
a lot of Stanford Tauruses and things
like that or Neo solos but that is
pretty awesome and uh you know if you
are a teacher in in know and you ever
interest in being you know helping a
group of students can get involved in
that contest please shoot me an email be
glad to walk you through the process of
getting those involved so uh we usually
a few hundred students show up to the
actual conference itself to show off
their uh space stations designs but
again tens of thousands participate
every year it's really awesome could
dark matter be gravy spilling from other
universes it's been suggested same for
Dark Energy um the problem is the
question because why is it clumping um
we can see the effect of the darkg
matter through its gravity and so or at
least through that mass and so we know
that it tends to Clump around large
bodies of mass but not always that's
that bullet cluster thing is where kind
of had the big Chuck of mass and moved
out the side through a collision but had
move the do matter so because you can't
really collide with do matter Su it was
you know offset and so we knew that the
cloud was independent CU those the idea
that well maybe it's just a weird effect
of gravity we haven't quite seen yet
that it's struggle so when it was off
here and this there you'd have to
explain why it was lagging and that
didn't make sense same for a lot of the
other ones there is what's cing that
could it be maybe the gravity Tails or
hole into another universe and look at
you leak through slowly from there and
there have been a lot of ideas
represented by this but to me the
easiest one is that they're just heavy
particles that don't interact much like
neutrinos can go through a light year
lead and there are a lot of particles
that are more massive than protons and
neutrons already out there so it's just
one that doesn't interact much and is
also very massive and for some reason
very common still strikes me as the best
solution um time will
tell so Alan Volant thank you for your
Super Chat I'd like to recommend to you
the golden Acumen by John C Wright and
if you read it I hope you'll explore its
Concepts one day and happy New Year
thank
you
um Luke Lucas trap says does time still
have a direction in the quantum real
realm
um it should but does not might be the
better answer on that quantum
gravity well time and Quantum and
gravity and Quantum do not really get
get along very well but you can have
things go backward in time in Quantum F
there's no no absolute borrow on that um
and indeed as we talked about some the
episodes we talk about virtual particles
which are not anyway but P particle
production by way think of that you
think of as like he electron here's a
positron and they're splitting after
each other and they they are for some
reason remoji annihilating and it says
what well why they split and then
somehow come back together again to
annihilate one of the other versions
that is that it's it's just a particle
and that you know it it it passs forward
and when it runs out of time it goes
backwards and and ceases to exist uh so
it's kind of just
going um and it looks like an anti menop
particle when it's going backward in
time um so you can have reversed effects
of time in Quantum but I I for my part
tend to assume that that will not
necessarily hold true when we have a
better and more full understanding of
how time and gravity work with the cling
scale Janie Lila says I'm getting some
drink and pizza for the new year in 20
minutes happy New Year Isaac have you
considered what kind of Cuisine that
people may develop while living in a
weightless environment I am sure that we
had space food up as one of the poll
options I'm just trying to remember when
that actually comes up we do have space
food either was one of the most recent
poll options or we be one in January so
I have been thinking about it because I
never put a poor topic up there for I to
vote on unless I at least have thought
about enough to say I could find an
episode on this but uh I probably need
to do some more those polls cuz we are
switching and this is one things now the
live stream is over and now that we you
have almost a year of uh extra episodes
built up on nebula that will be coming
over for from nebula when they're one
year old we'll be switching over to a
seven episode per month uh setup so
every Thursday we we have an episode and
then if it's a month has four Thursdays
there will be three Sunday episodes and
it's episode has got five Thursdays and
it'll be two and we're just kind of be
switching into that it would probably be
Midsummer before we're fully in that
flow but um I I since I've gotten to
enjoy so much I like making the little
pictures of the episode and the cover up
for that gives me an idea what I want to
think about while I'm doing the art form
that up what the episode should look
like so since if you're having seven
episodes a month and you're having a
poll that's got four a month and if
you're only doing two a month that's
probably not sufficient quantity of
polls to actually find out what sort of
episodes people want to do though I do
sometimes just do one on a win so we'll
see how that goes it seems that some of
your viewers have uh viewpoints on what
we should eat like space spaghetti and
bootleg lasagna and lasagna last night
we had a dinner party last night some
friends over had lasagna and things you
can hold in one hand spaghetti is
actually my favorite meal of the steak
to be
honest um FL horbeck asks if there's
anything that comes to mind to rule out
when gravity broke symmetry if it broke
symmetry in one dimension at a time or
if the last symmetry breaking was
inflation or something along those lines
yeah the part of the problem is I was
thinking about cooking hamburgers on my
nice do now we're we
we're so symmetry breaking
um I'm going to punt on that question
because I'm not sure I can answer that
decently especially in in how about this
one do vacuum raccoons eat
Cheerios that's a better question I have
no idea on that one either though I I
remember with the vacon we come to the
porch side it a smoke at the time I go
outside and smoke on my porch and and
there's this raccoon that come by and
eat the Cheerios or bsy that let down
the SC feeder and uh I got the point
where I was just kind of throwing him
Cheerios when he's nearby D I got little
contain of him and he got closer and
closer and because I keep cats and he
was getting pretty relaxed about there I
was see there smoking one time he's up
near up I and I kind of reached over and
petted him and I don't remember exactly
what happened at that point all I
remember was I was over here and then he
was over here kind of looking at each
other saying you
know I would let that go but let not
ever do that again you I'm not a pet
don't pet me
um but he'd also go fishing a lot too on
my pond Outbacks we say these Bullfrogs
and you can rip r r and then they just
go quiet sometimes so he go fishing and
get them vacuum so pris asks have you
ever thought about making a video on
Angel netting like in Orion's arm um I
actually don't know that one oh it's a
few NOS in a row um no no no oh we're
stumping you trying what Angel stump
Isaac Arthur at the end of the last live
stream of the Year episode number
right on the yeah uh and I would say
this is the fifth anniversary cuz there
12 years except we've skipped three or
four live streams I didn't do one was
isdc last time I didn't do one on a
honeymoon um and I didn't do one we did
an episode while on H but I just
released it from the que it's just had H
C buttons um most of the episodes are
made like 3 months only and left there a
about 2 weeks before the episode comes
out too um but uh and I can't oh yeah I
skip I skipped one last month and I had
one other I skipped cuz I was really
sick too I can't remember what the one
was though um so I think our first one
watch it was either August or September
one um was there a question attached to
that want find a tangent Angel netting
have you done an episode on Angel nety I
I nope the concept would stick my head
have I done an episode on it okay send
it to me though and by again by email I
think I actually had the email up on on
doing the Ino Mission but again is
isaac. althor do yoube spelled U utube
not like the actual show I know why I
thought that was amusing at the time to
do it that way but I did that's the
email that's how I thought it was always
spelled until like actually growing up
and looking at it well what surpris me
is that apparently the te in YouTube is
supposed to be capitalized but uh yeah
but again if you leave in the comments I
I usually will catch any comments on any
episode in the first day or so but I
don't usually come back to them too
often unless YouTube sends me a
notification and they do not send me
notifications of every message so uh if
it's on the first day on a video
including the live stream yes I usually
see it there uh after that but if you
have a specific question Rel to an
episode to email it to me or hit me on
social media okay so the last question I
was going to do and I'm going to have to
paraphrase because it rearranged the
chats again and I cannot seem to find it
uh is from Aran light beat up by YouTube
today well this chat is driving me crazy
I I'm really missing the mods
um so any rate Aran light says so if we
were ever to crack immortality in your
lifetime where would you see yourself
being 1,000 years from now 10,000 years
from
now um me personally probably well I
know i' be in this physical office I'm
sure i' to rrange the house at least a
little bit by then but I would expect to
still be on my farm here a th000 years
now and maybe even 10,000 years now
depending on our population growth was
coing how much stuff we've been building
in space um
but I don't know I I the thing
is I wouldn't imagine I'd keep doing the
channel That entire time although I I
don't know I'd ever stopped doing the
channel so much I just do some other
things too and maybe like cut back to be
able to do this as a you know occasional
thing um I would want to try to loan
every Hobby and profession I could get
away of doing um you know but that's
always so hard to predict on that where
will you be a million years from now uh
could he human like mine even have a
million years worth of memories um
hopefully still married to the same
person hopefully I'd still be alive by
then if you were I guess immortality is
the uh live l so I got see I'd love to
have like a nice big cyborg body with M
Rax that could just go St you out the
scenery like you know terrorizing folks
with that there's this episode of
futureama where Richard Nixon's ahead in
a CH and the uh he's losing a vote and
he emerges is some kind of gigantic
titanium body and I've always wanted one
of those for my own so maybe like that I
could be you know like Nixon for future
Dr um let's see a thousand years from
now I'd like to think that I had
actually got visited place like the moon
Ms though if if that has been buil up
like that since then but
mostly um it's not so much where would I
like to be a thousand years where would
like to see hum be in a thousand years
i' see us have you know a few hundred
space colonies by then at least um and
that be the big thing is you know not so
much what are you doing a thousand years
what is everybody else doing and I think
so long as there's a Humanity out there
doing some interesting things I'll find
some way to preoccupy myself in the
meantime I'm content to keep doing this
show because there has been a wonderful
wonderful time doing it and well I guess
is the end for the live stream at least
you for the near future um the show is
going to keep on going and going strong
for as long as you guys are willing to
take the time to watch it and I am
really grateful tuning in both today and
for the last n and a half years and keep
tuning in for the next 9,000 and I'll
keep making the show and until then
thank you for watching and have a great
week and have a great new year happy New
Year thank you for joining us for
another monthly live stream if we missed
any of your questions feel free to put
them in the comments on the episode and
we'll see you on Thursday but if you
don't want to wait you can check out any
of this month's recent episodes or see
our bonus content over on nebula at go
