good afternoon everyone and welcome to
the SFI a monthly livestream Q&A will
get sowed in just a moment but go ahead
and stop getting your questions in the
chat window
so our moderators can start relaying
those to me as soon as we stopped please
try to keep the questions concise and
watch your spelling and try to be polite
to others in the chat we usually go for
about an hour so you probably want to
grab a drink and a snack though we'll
take a break about halfway through to
with all that said welcome and let's get
stoned good afternoon everybody and
welcome to our monthly live stream Q&A
session before we get started now is
good time to reach questions in but some
of you may have noticed that we went
live this morning at nine o'clock or so
in the morning and that was me doing a
sound and audio check on the thing real
quick we get priming for the live stream
and I accidentally hit the streaming
button so the recording button so he
would go live for probably about 30
seconds of me see him either with head
fassold and in my pajamas so for those
of you managed to catch that we would
never speak of it again anyway as we
enter the question stay again sorry for
anyone who did not get the notification
to about to be late on this we said
everything without me noticing that was
somebody might have a way out the door
at the time alright Marik she's got any
questions in yet always a moment they
were getting started first question is
from / 0 get cake hey uh what's a
science fiction movie that's ridiculous
but you still find fun um I guess the
classic for that one is always gonna be
planet and I from or beyond planet 9
from outer space it's a really bad film
from the 50s I think that you can
actually see the UFOs hanging out the
while isn't it but it's one of those
ones where it's so bad it's good as
opposed to so bad it's bad like the
Battlefield Earth movie from around 2000
so which was just that bad and I
actually had a room major staff there
because I was we used to go watch a film
in finals week and I had to go on an
internship right after that
down to the Air Force Institute of
Technology down Dayton and one of my
roommates um Matt Campbell he said oh
the book is so much better than than the
movie and I was inclined to believe this
cuz this is usually the case and I was
reading through it and it was the first
time I'd ever had something where the
book was actually even worse than the
movie and the movie was so bad our next
question we got one coming in here is a
question how a police automation if it
ever happens affect society we actually
decided last night during our brainstorm
session for a couple episodes and in May
and June that we're gonna do it upside
on space police so we'll have to look at
that a bit more then but hmm how
animation effect police society traffic
cameras will be kind of forced one that
we do that for all codes on license
plates thing we hit with a reader on if
on the vehicle those are a source of a
great deal of debate these days whether
or not it's okay to have traffic cameras
giving people speeding tickets or you
know having some that reads license
plates but those are the kind things we
start to have expect to come in there
are the ones would be like everyone's
phone app might have not just the
ability to call 9-1-1 but it's a little
bit better with that kind of voice
technology we might start having a point
where everybody had a duress Ward for
instance something they very strange war
they could just shout that would they
all formed here and say uh call 9-1-1
and i would flip on your GPS and
potentially your cam or things like that
too right now we got cameras on the
phone but as that technology gets better
with things like bluetooth technology
and bandwidth and metal batteries it
wouldn't be that weird for somebody
maybe be wearing a lapel pin kinda like
a lot of police officers have the body
camera and that might only go live when
you want it to but a lot of folks might
cure something around like that on them
kind of a quoting all the time and a
case like that if that just goes live
the police can suddenly see exactly what
would be going on in your immediate
vicinity
especially if there's a small enough you
could have multiple ones bunch of person
and they could you know that we have
quite a problem for he was trying to bug
you as they get you know and I saw a
snapshot of them Hawaii mug shot and of
course you'd have all those other people
in you
if you got a man's buiid a ping and
beside the privacy issues this kind of
things to play you would be able to just
you know start talking of other people
who are nearby area to see who was there
and whose cameras realized so you get an
extra view of like the perpetrator of
anyway things like that
so of course there's also the predictive
policing into things too and we'll
explore that more when we look at well I
think we'll do a space police episode
but we'll look at law enforcement in
general in a futuristic context and
probably early to mid June mmm
kegger ass Kenda 13s thoughts on John
Scalzi's old man war series can't
remember you mention it seems heavily up
the group's a lie I haven't read it but
it's been a while and I've only been the
first book probably had to punt on that
one but there's after the kind of
context means toadying with relativity
in science fiction I'm of that from the
book series you get this slower than
light travel or you know how much time
push away from things that's also loose
on into his game and we were going to be
doing another episode actually I think
was pulling high on patreon right now is
one that we do one on space warfare
sublight logistics so those will be
things we probably won't explore they oh
but I can't talk too much about Scalzi
series because it's not pinging a memory
for me right now unfortunately
Jacob bass who would govern gorg govern
and all brewing on earth what would
happen if two nations with connections
to it were at war if you only had the
one orbital ring and you throw the
equatorial one you can do other ones
other anglers but they take a little bit
more effort then yeah you've got a bit
of a problem but it's gonna be one very
similar what you have like sea lanes or
shared fate whales you probably would
have if you have two countries in vulner
you probably have won a few and you
might say like let's say it was one that
passed through most of Europe the United
States and Southeast Asia so getting a
ring angle on that hmm and you might say
well the United States is at war with
Thailand and so you got you know five or
six European countries it passes through
who could just say well during the
duration is conflict by the treaty that
we have we oversee both of your port
for you you know that way you have to
worry about the other guys shipping
weapons around to that or breaking
embargo isn't trade will oversee that so
that might be an example of how you
could do that but the biggest problem
with an opal ring is that it does it
pretty much by definition does have to
go around other places now there are
some angles like neo polar angle is
where you could actually have it just go
through one or two countries and a lot
of ocean but what's the real economic
value of that and I said well if you
just might have an opener ring but you
don't actually have to have an orbital
ring to take advantage that the force of
the Space Launch it's nice it's it's
your most economic potion but we do have
that same active support technology
available for truncated things like the
laughs strim loop or just a space towel
or pea spaced hours that connect a big
ramp between them for instance so there
are options you don't actually have to
do a complete one around the planet and
it actually technically does not
actually have to be a a Sokol or even
our ellipse you can be a bit of weird
anglers and cause you really want to the
big pom though is the older ring as a
launch vehicle because no blooming just
takes you up into space you're not
actually in orbit yet you just have that
altitude is that you can run acrost it
and you know speed up while you're
running around it and you can only turn
so fast and things like that actually
got a Tony radius that expose you do a
lot of core like when you're on the road
what's nice about all the ring is great
if you run around think upside down so
that lost gravity is pulling down on you
and that it gives you a little bit of an
extra acceleration you get away with so
you get up much faster mmm that's why
you really want that ring or ellipses so
you can do that take advantage of that
exit that thing at the maximum speed you
can pull off mmm
let's see Thank You mo Johnson many
industries will always require gravity
to operate so what might an industrial
park be like in a no neo cylinder hmm I
mean I guess you could have industries
inside it but in a lot of cases you're
having your industrial park would
probably be you know a separate facility
outside that on your sewin or because
again you don't actually have to have it
on the inside and if it's on the inside
it's maybe a little bit more convenient
but there are all sorts of ways to make
like a fast train to take you from
inside the O'Neill son/daughter nearby
habitat
so tell it to in Smallville stations for
instance and the less you've controlled
gravity what you want and it also means
that you know if I if I need low gravity
inside an Oreo so no I can put a
facility up in the air ways hanging down
from the central axis so it's got lower
gravity and then I'm doing some chemical
walk in there on if that goes off it's
gonna fall down on top of everybody and
in terms all those chemicals just
bossing when you can just go ahead and
build another space station nearby
relatively cheap one you know relatively
speaking and just have stuff they are so
there would be dynamics that of course
it depends on what you're aiming for in
terms of you know work force going they
are back whether others even work force
going to the factory or not as it might
just be telepresence operate also
mmm-hmm and rhihub asks what will the
force interstellar mission look like
will it be a national mission
international private etc um I would
just guess the very first one would be
international just because it's always a
little bit easier to handle those things
we got multiple people with stakes in
the game and there would be a lot of
people want to sign on for that but it
might be a single nation doing it or
even a private one and the kind of
buttons been working by interstellar
mission are we talking about just
sending a probe out or we talk about
sending out a big old generation ship or
something in between it would depend way
too much on the landscape like if we had
the technology to it right now today
presumably you would either be the
United States or it would be like you
know a group of various stations same as
we have for the ISS but if we wait
twenty years it could be a completely
different story
um Thank You Kelvin McGowan if the
universe is 85% dark matter in a second
then why isn't there a ton of dark
matter at the bottom of every gravity
well the Sun for example seems like it
should be a dark matter vacuum that's
not quite right the universe is about
85% Dubbo a little bit more that dark
matter and dark energy most of its dark
energy dark matter out numbers regular
matter about five to one I suppose that
pile is Mike it up Robbie is close to
85% but the majority the universe is
that dark energy now as to why it's not
all over the place
the thing about gravity is that it's
only gonna suck things into its new
gravity well when they're getting bumped
around by stuff like if
I'm going your black hole unless I'm a
directory for it I'm gonna swing around
that thing and then fall into a very
elliptical orbit um the only reason you
can cast slow down a case like that and
phone to a more stable orbit or have
things like plants for me where all the
things all clump together is because
they're banging off each other dog man
who's assumed to have all gotten
basically a spirit is right now
doing the early phase of the Big Bang
right all those particles are moving
around and those that have a high enough
you know a lot to be slow velocity but
still fairly high compared to most
interstellar objects they kind of float
around the galaxy in a halo because
nothing ever bangs in them including the
dark matter or they just stay on that
orbit pretty much forever other than
being taught by gravity the only is
gonna stop one of them mister run into a
black hole and there was have a very
very tiny you know you know cross
section of collision so that's the
reason why it's not clumpy knob there is
dark matter in the solar system or
another source so we assume it we've
been testing for that stuff and of
course I'm sure you all well the Dark
Matter experimentation is slow and not
as successful you see light to pin the
stuff down but as best we can tell from
what we can't find this stuff does
itself move rather slowly it's just
nothing ever collides with it to slow it
down more so that's why you're not gonna
be around like that and again the
density of a galaxy is very thin maybe
we should see a clump up in things like
stall is because all those things can
bang off each other all those individual
atoms can bang off and clump together in
the absence those collisions everything
just stays on trajectory around with
affected by gravity sam Biswas asks
juvey thoughts of making a video about
pay oh it's here for me I hope this
doesn't sound vague to you because my
English isn't that good
what's made peyote or forming is
different than teal forming in the sense
that we say peyote Oh forming that's
when you got all your domes or glass
houses on a planet or you're boring into
lava tubes to make them you know
habitable by capping them off or things
like that and then pressurizing them I'd
say puppy original colonizing Mars and
colonizing Venus episodes war peor
terraforming episodes same for like moon
base concepts or battle for the moon a
lot of the outward-bound series focuses
on the peyote for me angle forced and
then later in the given episode
we'll talk about some of the more
high-end terraforming concepts but I
mean just straight-up peyote or for me
episode maybe we have thought about it
before but I think best example when
those episodes we thought about a lot
but it's never told into an episode
because we're not really sure what
there'd be to discuss beyond you can do
this with domes Thank You Jon - hey Dee
do you have a video on a species of
incorporeal aliens if not would you be
interested in making one and maybe
sharing your initial thoughts here we do
have one other I'm actually it's the one
I'm writing right now benevolent aliens
which will come out sometime in late May
early June 2 episode 241 but I don't
think there's one on incorporeal aliens
yet
unless you count aloof aliens the one we
did back in November or December kind of
because that's I think that would
probably stick with aloof aliens and
this we did one on alternate dimensions
we do actually have enough sort of ultra
realities coming up but it's more
focused on the concepts as opposed to
civilizations inside them um but there's
one we public around doing at some point
so many episodes a little time 15 gave
us Haven asks how about life on a planet
with high gravity we've ever sowed on
low gravity coming up and that would
tend to imply we do one on high gravity
- but a lot of times where I shot a new
episode on a topic where it seems like
there would be good sequel as always
like to see if that episode turns out to
be well liked for us to consider mitting
- another episode on it but yeah if the
low gravity episode is popular we'll go
ahead and do a high gravity one to sooth
and scientist asks what timeline do you
estimate for colonization in the solar
system hmm you know I get asked
sometimes because I actually gave some
loose dates inside the outward-bound
series episodes the earlier ones and
what the timeline that was and
of course I'll say 20 years they are
from the previous one things like that
but I think that was completely out of a
hat I think we set the colonizing Mars
one in the early 20s late 22nd or 23rd
century and did the colonizing two to
one year 2700 just because that was the
date I picked there I don't know if he
went caught it was the next time or
second next time that Pluto would be the
eighth planet so the ninth planet I
closed on Neptune but um
neither there's time lights things like
that what time line did the North
American continent can settled was it
1492 was at 1776 was it 6,000 years ago
it's kind of hard to say or 20,000 years
ago conversation is not gonna be even
cat thing it's gonna be various ways and
and changing ways of what people are
focused on we talked about colonizing
the asteroid belt for instance would say
you get out there with asteroid miners
and then you'd have a second wave
unrelated to it
much as Silicon Valley in California has
really nothing to do with the gold rush
of 18-49
so you these multiple stages but I do
think we'll have a prominent base this
century universe on the moon and it's
only like you know 10 people but I think
we probably will have something like
McMurdo level
McMurdo a nautical level on the moon for
the end of the century and then after
that it just depends on whether our
asteroid mind turns out to be profitable
mmm and say we can do asteroid mining
but we might get better with some of you
like mo home on Yan or or much but all
you know extraction process here on
earth and suddenly that's less
attractive it's just hard to say oh that
would walk out timeline wise Felix sha
asks have you heard of hydrogen boron
fusion power and what you think about
the technology there is a there was a
couple the one that came to mind is
probably not the one you're thinking of
but it was it was a and I need to get
the name of it was a cord fusion system
for many years back so I'm betting
that's not the one you're thinking of
but that's all I can think of at the
moment other than the actual process
involving hydrogen born inside stars
cept Oni and cosmonauts would it be
easier to build two orbital rings on
earth and have them lift each other up
by adding modules rather than lifting
all that mass in space via spaceships
I'm not sure which quite picturing there
but you could potentially build an
orbital ring across the planet and I
caught up with helium balloons and then
get a nice and taut and speed up and
lift it that way but I suspect you would
find it to be easier to put up you know
one that weighed maybe you know maybe in
a million tons around the entire planet
Forest or 1000 tons maybe to get that
small yeah and then just bootstrap up
off of that
you know you get a ring up there and
then you drag the components for a
bigger ring up on top of that and so
forth
mm oh you manufacture the force went off
material got from Mars as an asteroid
thank you more of Johnson Annie water to
a torch drive can increase thrust
because of a linear relationship for
exhaust velocity and thrust but a square
relationship for thrust and mass flow
how more propellant butts aimed at
energy production I'm afraid I'm not too
clear what you're actually asking here
huh the rocket equation can be kind of
confusing to folks at times because the
trick is that the exhaust velocity is
always the same relative to ship so the
reason why you always need more fuel to
get your a higher speed is because your
own fuels begins to exit you moving
forward well to the people who are
stationary so like let's say I'm on my
way up to orbit and get to halt but I
have to be going say 10 kilometers a
second keep the math easy but my
propellant goes 5 kilometers a second
out the back of my ship once I'm up to 5
kilometres a second the stuff is
actually coming out of my ship is now
stationary relative to the ground nice
coming out as a cloud that would fall
right back down when it's up to 10 km
you're a second you know the stuff is
actually following me at five kilometres
a second is you're getting in the same
kinetic energy but right it's just that
you are you do have that diminishing
with torn aspect that's going out for
that and confuse people sometimes but
for torch drives unless your point is
something else I don't think that's a
linear relationship the way you're
referring to it to but that might have
gotten messed up on pasting or something
this is new good day Isaac can you
conceive some form of alien biology
where Darwinian ISM doesn't apply
thank you for your walk sure also in
brains a Boltzmann brain is by
definition not something that evolved
now you could have in between stages for
instance you could have something that
that was a simplistic Boltzmann brain
type device that beat that that grew to
be something more complicated but the
whole idea is there is that you have and
this is a big one about evolutionary
theory that tends to get so left out on
this is it's not random luck it's random
mutation that over many generations of
hereditary is improving those things
they
you're not following every last random
thing with something like a Boltzmann
brain that's exactly what it is 100%
random and that's why they're so
insanely statistically improbable but um
you wouldn't really expect anything that
followed that context otherwise because
that's you have to be looking someplace
where that wouldn't apply there might be
other universes for instance where that
might be more logical but not the way we
tend to you know say we hunt on the
assumption that evolution is correct so
we're not gonna like you find any place
where that wouldn't be applying so um
Janna Minka asked if we are indeed the
forced life in our galaxy do you think
we have a more obligate more obligation
to green the galaxy no I think we should
I think that we be wrong not try to
colonize the whole galaxy and tailor
format make it great but a moral
obligation now you know it's a mistake
in my opinion this is just a personal
matter of ethics it's a mistake to Tony
thing that you feel passion about doing
in to a moral obligation we don't have
any more obligation to go out there and
and make the universe green anymore we
have a moral obligation to some species
we might encounter to help them out give
them technology it's what I want to do I
think it's the right thing to do but I
wouldn't call it a moral obligation
Calvin McGowan thank you very much
ass in games how sometimes rush a tech
to get it before I ordinarily would this
presumably being for X Games gunpowder
in the bronze days etc I do that all the
time what tech would be the best of us
in real life assuming this is even
possible and make enough of a difference
to be worth it we have to that we always
fixate on for post-scarcity
civilizations and that's
self-replicating machines or something
really close to it like a clang can you
replicate oh and of course fusion but
what we really need is abundant energy
or abundant manpower so any technology
to either one of those are the ones
you'd want to as we say rush the tech
tree worth thank you matt parks or at
Polk's
these don't always pace well what's the
most alien form of alien life you've Cal
cast in sci-fi or could imagine yourself
hmm it kinda depends on what you mean
because a lot of times you can come
something physically biologically we
owed but or that either just have any
properties but that's kind of realism
that's evolved it's its kind when they
do cop books super characters X versus Y
and say well you know there's no cure to
more power on this one so well there's
always one random character nobody cares
about that you know was listed by some
random rider who was lazy as being much
much more powerful by something they did
how weird of an alien life-form can we
make there's always be something really
weird to me the weirder aliens are the
ones where the arthur has actually taken
the time to really talk about how it
could be functional
you know like for those of you that
whoreson Scott called a book a speaker
for the dead that is the camera the car
the piggy is a different name they are
portrayed to us with a depth that makes
them very alien not because they are all
that alien compared to some other aliens
you might see in science fiction but
because from the get-go there's this
alien concept there that the author
explores in deep detail whereas even we
get a lot of information about a given
alien species in a sci-fi series usually
like with the Klingons it starts off one
way and changes a lot of time like if
you're watching the original Star Trek
the Klingons are that all not really
that much like the ones from next
generation let alone from deep space 9
let alone from the new series I gather
I've only watched about four episodes of
discovery so of all and you know it's
kind of layered on semi paradoxical you
know contradictory information about
those species as new fighters try to put
onto it but when an author really takes
their time develop something like that
and I you know that's a good example is
Orson Scott Card's piggys from speaker
for the dead let's see thank you very
much Ryan founds and he says thank you
Isaac for creating great content you
were very welcome
AFN capella asks can you appreciate
sci-fi that didn't age well what our
deal breaker was what entry tubes
examples there are quite a few that
don't early age well in some of God's
others do I was just recently finishing
up
it's it's a Samoas a lord of light by
Rogers
Esmee is a fancy knob I saw a sci-fi
novel mascarenes fantasy novel
mascarenes a sci-fi novel a lot of Roger
Zelazny sci-fi is hate sees one of the
most popular authors of this period
presently carried over well to the
modern era probably certainly got a TV
show for awfully the show Jeff but that
book kills over very well because he
didn't really focus too much on the rise
to a different kind of flavor things I
recently read CS Lewis's out of the
silent planet which was an omnibus that
my fiance got me for Christmas and it
ages well in some regards but then not
so much you know those the science from
that period that he is discussing we
can't doesn't fit too well but then a
lot of the plot and a lot of concepts
fit together very well so yeah same for
law things like space opera tends to age
well because it never was really all
that focused on scientific realism but I
say it was at the lensman series by II
doc Smith was almost always made like
the top five or six sci-fi series but
hasn't really aged you well in and so
you don't see on to me those this
nowadays so there are quite a few good
series from that and then it you have to
read them to what's appropriate for you
know what the author was going for the
time and I can too focused on the bad
science when they had that in there haha
DSS conspiracy theorist said smashing
atoms together in a Large Hadron
Collider would result in a black hole
was this an actual real concern among
scientists I was about to say no but
that's an unfair statement every so
often you have someone say well this
person's are cranked or not a real
scientist and say that's a bad approach
this force is a crank and a real
scientist and say well you know a
scientist boys to be a very rational
person and say if you think that your
scientists are supposed to be very
rational people you've not read very
many biographies of these people so
quite a few of our best scientists were
quite nuts and that our genius forces in
say anything gray line is telling so yes
a posting to be a real scientist and
wrong or crazy or conspiratorial out
things but I would say that in just in
general barring a few exceptions I don't
think it was
anybody who really thought the Hadron
Collider or amongst physicists and about
other scientists but I'd say amongst
particle physicists you would be having
opinions of that that will allow that
matter I don't recall anybody that I
knew who thought it was a real concern I
do not at that time but the real concern
on that one wasn't whether or not the
court theory would get us up to it was
could the theory be wrong and this was
basically Hokkien theory and we at that
point I'm never actually absorbed a
black hole and that's a very new thing
nor we even really pinned you down in
terms of the you know for sure this is
definitely a black Horner the locations
which strongly imply but that's about it
and we don't know that naturally for me
one's really had the property is based
on mass you know cube root mass for like
lifetime things like that that we were
assuming that would just translate down
to the micro scale so I wouldn't go so
far as say was a wrong issue to have
raised to think about but it was not
really all that much concern you start
talk about well what we don't know for
sure if you're taking that out to you
just say well we don't know for sure
that if we run this Collider it's not
gonna produce a mountain full of
leprechauns you know you've got to have
some basis for suspecting why it's going
to do this thing you don't expect you to
and allow the logic on why might create
a black hole was better than the idea
that might create a bunch of leprechauns
but it goes pretty thin
zalien asks what was your job in the
army and how do you see it changing in
the near and far future value book and
my experience for the humans you know my
best friend was in Intel before he
switched over to artillery my MOS was
Field Artillery a forester later it was
logistics after I got back from my
second second term of service but it was
an artillery and I when they found out
having two Greeks I joined when I was in
grad school and I listed two they
started to find ways to dump a lot of
more technical and paperwork stuff on my
desk and the unit itself was being
cavada would fielding as a scratch
infantry company because you just don't
need that much artillery when occupy in
a country that is you know a piece of
you and funnily in theory and so we
mostly did infantry walk we were on
artillery unit though but a lot of my
walk
besides me helped me get stuck helping
out
various tech and admin things new you
are teaching with the new equipment we
had was fixing guns repairing guns
training people on how to use some small
arms and other equipment you know like
the saw is my favorite guy I was very
fond of the m16a4 over the m4 I suppose
the alpha 2 and I liked the 50 Cal but
not like a lot of other well of course I
liked the mark 19 that's a machine gun
that fires grenades off but I would say
that yeah changed a lot a lot of jobs
they tend to tended to use me a lot to
put out fires at war so I'd result NBC
guy four hours old laser safety
radiation officer for a while and that's
not unusual that a lot of people end up
doing go for work in the military you
just send people to fix something and if
they succeed in fixing it you say oh
well you're busy I mean you know that's
so we're gonna ask you to fix this other
problem too so but the official MOS was
Fyodor Tilly Alexander Potter Chavis
what would be the impact of
self-replicating nanobots in the wheel
board depends on what kind of ones they
wore like we can see that people click
Maximizer for an idea of how that can
walk and but we did a couple of nano
robots and self-replicating machines in
yes ode nano robots and self-replicating
machines I believe wasn't in that
episode and I think that it's all about
how you got them set up in terms of can
you get them the energy needed can you
get rid of heat issues all they small
enough without being too fragile and you
have like the sticky fingers problem we
discussed in the santa claus machine
episode
so the impact though if it's good enough
is pretty staggering
and again depends on how good it is so
they're going out to actually do
molecular assembly at at a decent pace
then lots of things change you know be
20 and stuff into almost anything you
want out of garbage the first time that
really ever hit me in the early 90s I
collected comic books was quite a
popular thing back then I know Marvel
Comics very addicted to the doom 2099
series which features Doctor Doom is a
nominal protagonist and one goes far as
a hero and he experiments with using
self up game machines for a while and
always wonders why they didn't use
because you can do almost anything with
them you can turn garbage into food
things like that so you can't really
particularly the actual impacts would be
industrially until we actually had some
walking ones but in the medical ward
it's huge because industria seems like
3d printing you have to worry about
whether that's more economic than just
doing it with a factory a regular
factory but you can't really fix humans
correctly with you know the way you can
just you know manufacture a hammer so
you can do that with nanotechnology
because you don't really care if it cost
you a million dollars do that to a
person whereas you never obviously used
to be out there for manufacturing
something you know human-sized alright a
last quick question before we go to our
break
Dustin Adams asks have you read Orson
Scott Card's homecoming series I have
not or maybe I read the first few
chapters of one of the books but I'm
familiar with it but I am actually
education to read it
we're gonna go to bacon we'll see in a
few minutes so we'll be on break for a
few minutes and it's a great time to
grab a drink and a snack or get some
more questions and for our moderators we
don't usually get to all the questions
so we miss yours feel free to post it as
a comment on the episode and I'll swing
by sometime later to try to get to those
two however I tend to get a lot more
questions on the episodes than I can
ever hope to answer personally
especially these days as we creep up on
half a million subscribers so we have
forms to continue the conversations
there's our main Facebook group science
and futurism with Isaac although a lot
of our second Facebook group futurism
and society we're more controversial
topics all fair game we also have our
reticle ooh all discord group and our
websites form and Isaac all for net and
are these forums you can find all sorts
of fascinating conversation they also
the places along with patreon where we
source a lot of topics and polls either
picky episodes they or taking the top 5
for pork you on YouTube so you have
episode suggestions those are the places
to go you can find them linked in the
episode descriptions every week I also
want to take a moment to thank all our
patrons over on patreon they not only
have kept the show funded and running
all these years but they're actually my
favorite source of episode topics as
they tend to be our long-term
audience with the best notion of what we
already looked at and what tends to be
my wheelhouse for topics not to mention
being one of our biggest source of
volunteers help me out on scripts and
animations we are always looking for
more volunteers to and on pretty much
every aspect of the show I did want to
highlight our very first volunteer
Jacob Gregoire who does all that
beautiful COBOL for the episodes and he
stood active as he was when he joined us
back when us was just me around episode
20 and I want to give him a special
shout-out and thanks today it's a bit
strange that this show has become in
many ways a crowdsource project at most
levels and I've come to believe that's
not only a pretty neat approach but a
very good one that others should give a
try I've built a lot of friendships over
the years with this show too and evening
knowing all to help I've gotten from it
in making episodes battle the
crowdsource approach was worth it just
for all those friendships alright let's
get back to the show
okay when we're back president can you
ask someone is that a cankerous
reference from The Simpsons
president Kang asks if you send one
message back in time to yourself in the
year 1999 what would you send hmm
in 1999 probably don't worry so much
about y2k and then probably a quick call
to the Twin Towers a key or two later
independent writer asks
Isaac any plans to look in the ward of
cryonics yes we we mean do that observe
for a long time and then we did the
sleep of ships episode from the
generation ship series and we code
enough fit there that I felt like was
kind of covered for a bit but we will
actually do an episode on that at some
point the problem is that to do that I
always figure I should reach out to like
Alcor want the other kayaks companies to
see they want to collaborate and I keep
forgetting to do that and that has a
strong lead time on it but yeah we will
do an episode on cryonics at some point
I'm sure
oh and Taylor asks if you could wish for
any piece of clock tech common to
science fiction which one would you pick
Star Trek warp drive probably if you can
get to these other places fast that
changes the game quite a lot actually a
perpetual motion machine because I'd
rather just be able to keep things going
indefinitely rather than get from point
A to point B faster and faster but more
those two Zilla squad asks where do you
get the background out from it really
depends sometimes we get it from stock
food sources I talk about that more and
I think the 250,000 subscribers special
from a couple years back a lot of its
made in-house of course too and we have
a bunch of artists and whenever we
feature one of the ones by any of the
others to help animate for show you
sometimes you'll see their logo on the
actual animation I encourage them to do
that so they can you know get
acknowledged for their walk but we also
put them in D credible at the end of
episodes and you could also check those
out in descriptions of the episodes with
these very long descriptions and some of
them we have them linked like they are
you know they're all a page over the
outstation or deviant or some of the
other ones and I would encourage you to
check those out because you know these
are
nice animations they do but the ones
they do in their spare time allow their
walk that's more serious is actually
even metal and it's it's amazing quality
and if I haven't mentioned it it is
actually just awesome to work with those
folks
there is kind of like a feedback loop
between science fiction writers science
fiction artists and scientists and
scientists that like is just they all
kind of feed on each other to improve so
it's and it's quite a lot of fun to
actually get to be involved in that
environment for what I do which is kind
of talked about all three so Thomas
O'Brien ass high what do you think of
the view so ramjet has seen tau zero you
know I know that we talked about that
and was it the very original
interstellar colonization episode back
in December or January of 2015 16 one of
the original 10 episodes on show or
twelve episodes on the show I don't know
if I've covered it since then no we
would have covered it at least briefly
in this spaceship a portion compendium
which was the first episode I ever did
by by a poor suggestion that was a drew
McTeague it was actually one of our
admins and moderator was one the
Facebook page as well as being a patreon
supporters and there's chance throughs
watching right now he doesn't tend to
catch the episodes you know all these
years later so Hydra and space
propulsion companion was a very fun
episode to do even though went over 40
minutes normally I don't like to obsess
over 40 minutes he walks a rather was a
scheme that was a fun one the abuse of
ramjet basic concept for those of you
aren't familiar with it and haven't seen
those episodes you have a basically a
fusion drive that runs through
interstellar space and it sucks up
hydrogen from the interstellar void the
medium and it rams it through a high
speed and high pressure to create a
fusion event and use that for more
thrust
Ian's theory as it gets covered in in
the book tau zero which is by Paul
Anderson one of the great classics you
can get to not obviously the speed of
light but so close to it that your time
dilation is ridiculously slow in
practice you would not be able to go
above I think a Gambhir 133 basically
well 1/2 minutes for you was like one
second for anybody else but the system
is thought not to be able to walk now
you might be able to get around that
with
if you manage to find a way to suck up
auntie meadow instead and there was a
lawful lot of antimatter kicking around
in the in the universe to positons Nancy
protons we think there's like a kilogram
of anti protons that passes through our
solar system every second and we're
doing an episode on antimatter in a
couple months but you could always
potentially do it was like a micro black
hole that you're just feeding matter
into and using the hawking radiation
emitted by that to power or your thrust
to but those would still be very like
the abuse or the ramjet they're just not
using fusion specifically in practice
these things probably will not walk out
as well as we would like if they walk at
all and of course with something like
that you potentially also sucking Dogman
on use of that way to if we find some
way to manipulate dark metal Dobby of a
day and whose name I'm sure I'm
mispronouncing thank you very much I got
inspired for my channel in check made me
buy your channel in Joe Scott and I love
Joe's walk Joe Joe of Molly to the
moment for Sweeney question such a great
inspiration a little question where do
you find the time to produce so much
great content how many people help you
Oh get back to Joe for a moment Joe
Scott and I both start our YouTube
channels up about the same time kind of
growing about the same rate and we
actually all business partners over with
stand along with folks like Cozart that
is with nebula the thing we always talk
about that side purchase also with that
but I've done I think three episodes
with Joe and maybe an interview at you
over there oh and Joe is always so much
fun to work with so but where do I find
the time to do so much great content
I've actually gotten faster at it in
recent years the production in the corny
end which has helped out a lot that's
why we have bonus episodes where in just
a weekly ones also never I have like one
extra bonus episode a month but um a
while that is from all the volunteers to
help out on to when I first started
doing videos usually it took me like a
30-minute episode would take me about
6070 hours to put together and so we did
like those ones were like 30 minutes
long it wasn't it's a double as on do it
but a thirty minute video we were doing
those that was usually took a couple of
weeks of like our walk we stood for to
get over these days
a little bit faster and I think it's a
higher quarry too because we do get
those volunteers and it's hard to see
how many new all cuz folks being active
for a while but they are around a
hundred folks not a production group on
Facebook none on our Facebook page
that's secret groups obviously people
don't see the scripts and videos come
out only but you know again check the
credit where you see who is working on
that episode is an arrow and of course
there's the folks who show up for the
brainstorms then there's all the
moderators and it is just such a big
crowd of folks that's obviously I think
of as a crowd-sourced show these days
but lots of people help and I am
incredibly grateful for the help help
because it's not just that it saves me a
bit of time it's that it just makes the
episode so much better and so much fun
to actually work with them - we did a
brainstorm last night I think I
mentioned earlier IV well not recently
we're not been doing them every couple
weeks have been so busy in real life is
a war but we used to do them every two
weeks and we do a brainstorm for two
episodes and spend a couple hours doing
that and just be you know maybe a dozen
or service in there on discord shooting
ideas back and forth for hours and when
it was over I had a big collection of
notes and a massive headache they're
great to work with but it's it is
intense to be mother's brainstorm
sessions when they go and in four clips
sometimes and again I can't thank them
enough their help they are friends these
day is not just folks who help out in
the show majesty creations ass I've
always wondered if nothing go fast and
light how is it the radiation escapes a
black hole or how could a black hole
dissipate I see there's always a missing
question on that I would say how can how
can radiate out of black hole it
actually does not but another question
gravity moves the speed of light and we
think it moves the puddle called a
graviton
how does a graviton if it's going the
speed of light to get out of a black
hole of course that Kazuyo genival to
the issues now when it comes to me like
Hawking radiation it's not escaping the
black hole at all there's two different
ways on paper to look at how that
Hawking radiation would take place are
kind of similar to the Unruh effect
method which is harder to explain and
then the slightly less accurate but
easier to explain volge
or particles one vertical particle is
all popping up everywhere all the time
in space and when we talk about this
more in the micro black holes episode
and some of the other black hole
episodes we've done virtual particles
pop up everywhere in space but when they
pop up it's a particle and it's
antiparticle and they usually self
annihilate well if there's someplace
where the gravity is significantly
different from one
you know nanometer to another like at
the edge of a very small black hole
there's a decent chance one gets ripped
down into the black hole event horizon
right below it and the other does not
and it flies away in space they don't
nya lights that's the virtual photon
model for Hawking radiation
now the then that explains also why you
have the bigger ones emit slower the
gravity difference at the event horizon
between one nanometer closer or further
away from it is much sharper by a small
black hole than is by a big black hole
it's not that Moi's virtual photon pairs
are popping up they are than anywhere
else in the universe it's that right
they are around really small ones it's
so intense that it's very likely for two
virtual photons or particles be ripped
apart and separate and thus one flies
off into space radiation yellow follows
down with negative mass and sucks that
of the black hole and that's kind of a
cheat for how that's happening in theory
it'd be nice to actually get there and
see one of these but you couldn't
actually detect Hawking radiation coming
off a natural black hole because it's so
minimal that you need the most sensitive
equipment we had to look at it even if
you were seeing light next to and of
course you wore you'd be dead motion
Lemmon asks did you read engines of
creation by ejx law yes eric drexler
walk engines of creation from the early
or mid 80s and it's been a very long
time so I read it and is I don't know if
I actually have a read it cover-to-cover
castaño your novel but that is the
seminal walk for so much what has to do
with robotics and nano machines and
things like that and yeah you know force
assemble itself up key machines if
you've not picked it up I don't know if
he's ever done a new addition on it or
not but it you know it's it's the go-to
book and if you interested those topics
yes yoke tracks those engines of
creation is the one to to start with
Andrew yes and again I'm sorry I'm
mispronouncing people's names what is
the future of sci-fi in your opinion hmm
it's always interesting questions
science fiction looks the future and
what is the future of science fiction as
long as there are new questions coming
out there's always gonna be new sci-fi
but it's also easy to forget these
things kind of come in waves like you
look at all these science fiction you've
got that handful of walks by folks like
jaws forms and HG Wells and then some
things that we kind of classify sci-fi
but really want intended like that at
the time there wasn't a genre and you
could like Mary Shelley's Frankenstein
or arguing it stuff like Sherlock Holmes
and then you get kind of in this other
phase in the nineteen twenty one starts
popping up Kali how you comic books
evolved out of that you got that only
one way at sky like a mixture of comic
book type stuff or restaurants a lot of
all these science fiction is based
westerns in space if you've seen Firefly
which is obviously not our classic
that's kind of a take on that it's it's
the pure Western in space and all things
like Flash Gordon right then you could
cover another phase I can traverse call
it but I think I mentioned Roger Zelazny
earlier today his walks in the sixties
and seventies that was again I'm the
name for that you know it's called a
sci-fi not going age probably but they
oh there's lot more looking to the kind
of psychological cultural ramifications
of how this stuff affects us and then
you know post moon you see a lot more
discussion of like colonizing the solar
system for a while and you give these
phase of going through like as we we got
cyberpunk in the early 80s with
Neuromancer and Blade Runner and some
others and then you see extensions of
that and things like Alistair I know
it's revelation space we could look for
we get more of a clear idea of what
cybernetics and transhumanism might look
like so those kind of periods that you'd
be passing through the I'm sure there
will be new ones all the time popping up
we can't say what they are yet that's
one of those ones we just had to wait
and be surprised by okay Bob asks what
mega-structure do you think should be
built for us do you do you we all have
the beginnings do you think we'll have
the beginning
for a moon base within the decade love
you woke Isaac your channel as well as
my best discovery thank you Bob
forced mega-structure can't depends on
what your qualify as a mega structural I
always count the only oh so no is on the
small end of what profiles a mega
structural and yet in only your stoner
was probably a century awful close to it
just because you have to have the demand
it's not just can we technologically do
this so you got to have a reason why you
need one of these things because until
you have you know millions of people
living in space you don't build only
your souland or because you're not gonna
put all your people in one basket until
you have you know you so you need
millions of people up there to be
talking about building a single space
station is home to a hundred thousand
people and then we have the mega
structure that nothing to do with
habitation
you know we've got like the night core
dyson be more pushing laser source those
have nothing to do with inhabiting space
more about traveling through them and
those greet your first ones or a series
of net walks through lava tubes on the
moon might be a mega structure the same
as we might say the great wall china or
the highway system was a mega structure
some of ewing catacombs of mining
throughout AAA asteroid and then you
know pressurizing all those tunnels pay
a tail forming them that might be a
forced make a structural well it's
really hard to say the overall ring is
they make structural and I think that
one I don't think the Oh blowing would
be our force make a structure but it
would be one of the first ones cuz it's
almost catch-22 you don't really need an
orbital ring and she's talking into the
zone where you need to put so much stuff
into space and down from space that it
starts keen realist to think about
building one at that point you probably
would have something I could own your
sound or you know on the table already
built also never without to count the
forced of any one thing has been you
know indicative of you know you might
build one example of something way for
you to start mass producing them
oh let's see Victor say asks will we see
more episodes of outward-bound maybe
about colonizing earnest or the rings of
Saturn the the springtime on Mars and
winter on Venus episodes and we're gonna
do a someone Jupiter episode in a few
months to I don't know if we ever do a
follow arm on someplace for episode
though but those are probably
outward-bound series they're just more
focused on kind of more classic tale for
me for winter
on Venus and springtime malls for
Jupiter we're talking more about making
a mini solar system like could you tone
Jupiter into Sun or you know other ways
you might do that but yeah the series is
not finished even I call moon episode so
I think techne part of the outward-bound
series but it's kind of got a little bit
hazy or the intention is not to do one
on every individual planet never has
been first as there is no Saturn episode
it's actually on Titan um and we are
never going to do one on your kness it's
just I have to be able to read a script
and if I'm giggling the entire time or
chuckling or what I'm I'm reading it off
it's not gonna work or well it's how to
discuss that planet without we real for
30 minutes as well without breaking a
smile Ishmael all cast do you think the
technology for post-scarcity will come
for Stan nations will unite around it or
that we have to find global peace before
we walk together on such technologies
false dichotomy in a question one is
asking what I think will come for us the
other was asking is it necessary I don't
think it's necessary for countries to
unify together on a particular thing
other than not actually actively
attacking each other with doomsday
weapons for you to be post-scarcity
you know you get an amended fusion a
cheap commercial fusion reactor tomorrow
that's post-scarcity in that doesn't
really require you to be unified because
whether that's good or not now as to
whether or not we would have to be a
more unified war before we could be a
perma post-scarcity that's a different
question again I saying don't think the
answer is yes that I think on the other
hand though would help well maybe I
don't know it depends on how you're
unifying you know you could be unifying
Genghis Khan style I don't know that's
gonna help you out much oh but I mean oh
unifying under one banner or you just
being friendly and having good trade
relations and you know helping each
other with extradition treaties and
stuff like that are you helping set up
each other as space stations are you you
know engaging in in joint projects the
so again immunity is a loose concept at
best but I don't think it's actually
necessary ragazze well might be
preferable and I'll always think it's
pretend the preferable to be able to
work together and then and peacefully
Albert Jenkinson asks what are the
advantages with molecular computing of a
classic silicon based computing and what
are the differences between capabilities
of molecular and quantum computers
they're not really related quantum
computing is what we did an episode on
quantum computing and so you can see
that one for the details and like you're
computing if we're talking about that
beam on the molecular level we're
talking more like biological machines if
you can grow it alpha like a DNA
template which is why DNA storage was so
interesting that's nice because it's not
that it's super efficient it's that you
know I can make a device that sucks you
know with solar panels on that's much
smaller than a tree they can suck carbon
dioxide out the air much more
efficiently than tree can it's a lot
more expensive than planting a tree so
that's off the imagine that kind of you
know biological machine but whether or
not we talk about molecular computers
I'm just not quite sure what you mean by
that they're all made out of molecules
so if that's a new tome for some type of
computer I'm not familiar with it
based at ass what are your plans for the
next videos and how do you focus for the
next video PS thank you for your videos
and your absolutely amazing narration
thank you very much um I think the the
upcoming video shouldn't pop me up next
to my head on the screen what we've been
doing this and that's that's the
schedule for this upcoming month but we
have the schedule I don't know if I've
leaked it recently and they oh but there
is a spreadsheet that I keep these all
on this same when I track them on myself
that is is publicly available to view
that carries through to you I want to
say was scheduled up through the middle
of June and will written up to the end
of May at the moment getting married so
I've been trying to kind of get ahead of
schedule so I don't - distracted with
wedding stuff and miss an episode and
besides the ones were coming up on the
screen if you want to compete at that
it's it's available and I'll make sure I
post them in the comments below for
anyone let's take a look
Phillipa serious what would be the most
precious commodity in an interplanetary
space economy
huh yeah we did an episode on
interplanetary trade and one of the
takeaways from that is that it's really
dependent not just on what technology
you have but what everybody is actually
valuing at that time and it's not just a
one given technology for instance you
could have fusion and in a fusion
economy hydrogen is quite valuable
relatively speaking it's the most
abundant thing in a universe so it's not
really that valuable but if you also
have really really cheap production of
solar panels then the materials you need
for that are still more valuable because
it might be their fusion only as a Misha
application at that time then I think
what we can say is the information that
will stay the most valuable least in
terms of our mass to be sure commodity
interplanetary space economy but it just
depends so much on what people should be
back and forth and it wouldn't be the
same in the same regions of space like
near the Sun your capacity makes solar
panels as well beaming stations that's
probably gonna be your most important
part where as I'll pass the Kuiper belt
whatever your power sources they are the
fuel that's likely the most important
one in the inner solar system water is
valuable there really isn't very much of
it outside of Earth nitrogen is very
valuable to it there's not much of an
you know solar system we get out and see
like the Kuiper belt or you know to the
Oort cloud these things all disgustingly
calm and relatively speaking we've got
time for a couple more questions
Daigo coh asks do you think it more
likely to fully adapt humans to
microgravity forced or the construction
of big enough rotatable habitats we
could construct the rotating habitat
whenever we want to
so as you're making at least 50 meters
in diameter or so you're gonna avoid
making people sick and it's like it's
that hard you can actually build a big
cylinder or you could take two pods and
connect them with a big tether and spin
around like a bolo now like a bolo tie
but like an actual bolo um and if you
can do that then you've got that
artificial gravity on board as to
adapting humans to microgravity I guess
a lot would depend on what we mean
by adapting humans you know if you're
talking about digitally uploaded people
then you know you you don't have to
adapt to microgravity you know you don't
even taking habitats but just trying to
biologically treat people we don't know
they need a lot of tweaking it might be
that moon on Mars gravity is fine for us
right now but no real health effects we
just know that zero gravity is bad and I
guess microgravity be in zero gravity
there might be things below in the next
few years that might allow us to you
know work with that justified or might
be something acquired such a heavy
overhauling of the human body that's
something you don't have until a long
after you got things like biological
immortality you know so hard to say um
maybe got time for two more white weasel
gaming asks more of a silly question but
if you could have your own O'Neill stone
door what would your portion of paradise
in a can't be like I was thinking of a a
fictional example for those of you know
who the know the author Peter Hamilton
he does the Commonwealth Saga and all
the ones like neutronium Alchemist and
he just had a new book out called Great
North Road I still got around to reading
in that there was a character named
Ozzie Isaacs who was one of the
cofounders of there won't monette walk
and of course him his partner Nigel are
disgustingly wealthy because they
invented now in the patent rights and
all the trade for basically warm horse
between planets and so he has his own
Rio so on it's an asteroid know the
solar system and normally don't really
use that because they can just go to
plants they don't like own eyes in the
space at all they just colonize planets
similar like in sg-1 where they just do
wormholes from plants so mr. platts
office but he has his own only also know
with built in waterfalls and other
things means the only one who lives
there and that one always struck me as
you don't really seem spending that much
time there I think I had my own your
cylinder I wouldn't spend that much time
there either I have the great pleasure
of living a rural area where there's a
lot of forests already and I don't spend
that much time out in them probably less
than I should I should get some more air
but if I had my own Renault soand or I
guess you probably would be for stood
and likes cuz again I like the climate
where I'm at or maybe a little bit less
snow but Connie the Great Lakes
u.s. Great Lakes US Canada Great Lakes
region in terms of climate it's and I
guess we'll go ahead and close out on
that one
oh I get one last question from be
steeped again simulation theory I was
only a question on that one are we doing
another episode on simulation theory any
time soon and that actually is going to
be coming up in our upcoming life
episode life is a digital beam which I
think is in late April or early May and
we'll talk a little bit more about that
kind of concept that you're so we've got
the schedule up for the upcoming months
for all the episodes and mulch and if
you do want to see what the actual
roster looks like for April and May I
will go ahead and post that link it a
little bit into the comments on this
section of video if I missed your
questions today feel free to go ahead
and leave those in the comments and I'll
try to get back to them later let's see
you didn't get the man sword as to that
though otherwise thank you for joining
us and we will see you on Thursday
so that will wrap us up for the day I
want to thank everyone for joining us
and again if we didn't get your question
feel free to post us a comment below and
I'll try to get you it this evening
also you can continue the conversation
at any of the forms on Facebook reddit
discord or all website
Isaac although dotnet thanks for joining
us and we'll see you Thursday
[Music]
