why is open farm obsessed with open
pastures good afternoon everyone and
welcome to the sfia monthly livestream q
a
we'll get started in just a moment but
go ahead and start getting your
questions in the chat window so our
moderators can start relaying those to
me as soon as we start please try to
keep the questions concise and watch
your spelling and try to be polite to
others in the chat
we usually go for about an hour so you
probably want to grab a drink and a
snack though we'll take a break about
halfway through too
with all that said welcome and let's get
started
options exist to traverse everybody and
welcome to our live stream q a for april
uh 2022 this occasion happens to
commemorate the second year of my wife
actually being our wonderful co-host for
this thing here she is hi as not
coincidentally this is also a second
anniversary so while i normally say
afterwards that i will be taking
comments that you put in the questions i
mean the next day
you're welcome to put questions in the
comments if we don't get to them today
but there will probably be a couple days
where it gets them because we're pretty
much leaving the live stream and going
straight on vacation for a couple days
so with all that said let's go ahead and
get to your questions
all right well our first question is
from igor brisken and he wants to know
if besides nuclear steam rocket engines
what other options exist to travel the
solar system quickly like the new
expanse
i think the big problem in terms of
trying to do anything with fusion that
we have right now is of course we don't
actually have fusion yet so we can't
really
say what's going to work and what's not
going to work for that
um the idea behind the epstein drive
i've never been entirely clear on
there's
up in book one
um but it is basically just a classic
fusion torch drive right
um
the notion there is that only with
something as powerful as fission or
fusion or anti-matter and you get to go
to those speeds but you don't see this
if you got an exhaust velocity that's
the speed of light but what do we have
to do that light right so that's why we
started to talk about laser sails on the
show or light sails on the show you use
mirrors over the solar system if you
can't get fusion working if you don't
feel comfortable using nuclear bombs to
repel everything or you know steam water
reactors right um then you put up big
mirrors around every planet uh where
they can be gravitationally anchored
into them and use those to bounce light
beams from the sun all over the place
that people can ride around on that
probably requires a lot of coordination
but it would probably be doable and it
would also probably be microwaves in
most cases rather than like visible
lasers
so the next question is from floor
horbeck
did dimensions emerge at the same time
fundamental forces separated when it
comes to gravity it doesn't seem to be
or were they already there at t equals
zero
the answer to that question is that we
have no hard evidence of anything that
happened prior to the wall of last
scouting or surface last scattering 273
or 80 000 years after we believe the big
bang took place uh so it's a little hard
for us to speak to what happened that
first second we do the modeling based
off of basically how clumped up are the
galaxies that's how we figure these
things out or guess towards them um
however any answer i give you on that
one is going to be a big question mark
whether or not space
and time had to exist before the
physical constants could exist
or those came in just afterwards is one
of those ones where it might be like uh
you know how many angels can sit on the
head of a pin type thing where we might
not ever know the answer i don't think
you could have the physical constants
meaningfully existing before you
actually had space and time though
all right the next question is from void
and he says the interstellar ship from
avatar had the crew and cargo behind the
thrusters so that it could keep them far
away from the radiation source while
conserving mass would this actually work
out
um you know the thing on something like
that is if you want to keep your
reactors far away you could do the the
nasal style thing on the enterprise the
original starship enterprise they have
in in tos and tng too they always had
the the engines are way off on the side
and the idea there was those are
supposed to be uh keeping radiation away
from the crew
but uh although i think they kept the
model because it looks cool you know
um
to keep radiation away from your ship
you could put it forward or back and
that way have the same cross-section as
you're going through interstellar space
at the same time in a lot of cases it's
not going to be all that necessary one
reason is that you might go ahead and
put your engine
forward of your radiation shielding so
you have that extra layer of radiation
shielding between you
you you the crew and the stellar space
too because that's another big source
for it so you can't put the engine
forward um i would generally tend to
think it'd be better to stick it behind
but then the question becomes what is
your super material that you're using
for the superstructure that ship is it
really strong tensile or is it really
strong impressive it's really strong
compressive strength then you want your
engine at the bottom that way it's
pushing up on the ship
if it's really strong tensile you want
to drag your ship behind the engine you
know that's basically the key factor on
that one there
all righty um i just was scrolling
through a number of folks are saying
happy anniversary thank you all and the
next question here is from brian van
buren any chance of a return to the
megastructure series with things that we
can build but probably wouldn't like
eater worlds free spheres and world
houses which would likely skip in favor
of o'neill cylinders you know that's
actually a good question i see cindy
just came in on the live stream pump by
the way um so we had those there one of
our folks was coming just a hail late to
get questions then to us so we had to
interrupt the normal schedule speaking
of megastructures so we did the original
megastructural summary that is the
original episode of the show um
and i've done episodes on individual
megastructures but one of the things we
have not done is i will just do a redo
on that summary so you could actually
get all of them including the ones we
can never realistically do an episode on
either ones or short entries so i
decided to do that as my presentation to
the idsc exactly one month from now
which is going to be our replacement for
the live stream right uh we're doing a
presentation live next month's live
stream in arlington virginia at the
international space development
conference uh at the same time four
o'clock there's not something in that
slot uh on megastructures and then i
that is
following up by that is going to be a
100 minute long summary video
that will be releasing early in june
june 9th that actually will go into more
detail unless every single make
structure we could come up with um and
that took me and sarah
because i was losing my voice for part
of it so she helped me out on that it
was just too much to talk about three
days to record so
that's our project for the next month is
to kind of process that
100 plus minute video into uh video
format and we're just going to release
that as one big video on june 9th to
kind of commemorate the
talk with the idsc and that redo and as
we come up on eight years of the show
alrighty
so yes
it was a long recording so i saw
somebody said that they miss your
episodes because they have to clean
their room they can play it in the
background yeah you can and again we do
all these on audio even the live streams
so i missed some of the visual aspects
though
all right so scooter gsp says what do
you consider the most important
distinction that must be considered
between sci-fi and fantasy when
attempting good world building in those
respective settings
say that one more time
the most important distinction to be
considered between sci-fi
and
fantasy when attempting good world
building you know before we were going
on ai i was noticing the comments i
think was nigel one of the others was
asking if i'd ever read michael morcock
uh he's a fantasy writer and he does
some kind of sci-fi flavors and
ironically that's the audiobook i've
been i'm listening to recently because
they just released a new updated version
of the audio for him uh he has some very
old recordings them that were kind of
lower quality
and uh the four is actually by neil
gaiman very good to listen to so
um
but uh
he is one of those fancy authors that i
think of us from the same periods like
roger zelazny where a lot or amber cafe
where they blow the line between fancy
and science fiction a lot
and um you know in the more modern
context uh you get so many ones that are
like uh like gamma world where it's the
post-apocalyptic earth is what the fancy
is that that's you see that with um
terry book chana series for instance um
and uh or the you know middle earth of
tolkien that's actually earth
some ages back right is the idea there
and i'd say with all these things we're
trying to get that laundry in science
fiction fantasy and trying to get that
little bit of realism
the key thing is to follow sanderson's
law it's another fancy writer and then
the first one of that is basically
whatever you're introducing is magic
whatever you're introducing your system
um is much fun can be had from that by
knowing what its limitations are and
keep it consistent so the audience can
think about it as can by just having to
do sex marketing which admittedly
tolkien tend to do a lot with your magic
dude whatever it could do at the time
you never really knew how strong it was
and there's a flavor to that that can be
good for writing too but if you look for
these long series of interactions with
your audiences and things like that
whether it's a science fiction
technology or a fantasy technology uh or
fancy magic is just having this kind of
realism of
interaction where the audience can think
about what they would be able to do with
it maybe even the money our dnd campaign
set in that and that's also gonna get
people writing back in this modern time
we interact with the audience and saying
hey you could do x y or z with it
instead too
and that's important although you need
to keep that kind of thing once it gets
canonized because it can cause problems
your audience is looking at something
you say break the rules that's been
going on for a series of books or films
um and uh you know you as an example
everybody loved the cinematic effect in
last jedi where they rammed that one
ship at hyperspeed beautiful
cinematography but that was such a game
breaker to all the previous films and
shows that it upset people at the same
time too so
we seem to have quite a bit of interest
in nuclear technology today so i'm going
to try to lump some of these together
sean mcmaster wants to know if it's
possible to build a clean nuclear bomb
that could be used for terraforming and
propulsion with little to no radiation
contamination opposite of a dirty bomb
what isotopes would it use
um
the key to building a clean bomb is to
build bigger ones for the most part
because what's happening with it is they
usually tend to get a better burn on
bigger bombs and a lot of it has to do
with the geometry of the bomb too
um
your default dirty bombs essentially one
that's inefficient and all the order
styles tended to be just because they
were lower yield and they tend to be the
gun style which is where you're just
slamming two things together your
preferred method of doing them is to do
the um you know to basically implode the
device just like with the supernova
you're putting explosives all around the
sphere of the stuff that detonated in
one tiny titanosphere that's kind of a
critical one i would say the biggest one
to actually have cleaner bombs is to
start testing back up again and i know
people don't really like the idea of
doing nuclear testing on the planet
which is why a lot of us favor doing it
on the moon uh so
the moon is already a radiation scarred
heck hole so you can go ahead and blow
it to bits um but that would be my best
statement how to go about doing that is
if you're trying to go for lower yield
ones
um
you're probably going to have to use
fission as your main factor there in
which case you are going to have some
some relatively large amounts of fallout
your fusion bombs are the ones that let
you really kick up the amount because
they don't have those isotopes being
used as much you use them to set the
explosion up but there's a lower yield
percentage-wise of that uh of that um
well unused burned ice tubes um but i
would say in that case
testing is the best way to find a better
better setup for what's going to
minimize it i don't think you're going
to find a different isotope to use the
big platform though you're going to have
to stick to that uranium thorium cycle
all right thank you tkg wildfire for
your super chat and he wants to know
what would be a possible energy to mass
ratio for ion engines to get from
surface to space in atmosphere with
current or near future technology
energy to mass ratio or power to mass
ratio
well he said energy to mass ratio but if
we should be talking power to master aco
well either one can work in that context
um
you need to be able to kick out an awful
lot of energy out of an ion drive and
they're kind of not designed with that
in mind the the critical aspect of the
ion drive is that you're trying to shoot
an ion out the back at much higher
velocity than gas comes out the back of
a normal rocket engine and the problem
is that the gas is coming out of that
engine based on how hot it is you know
your typical rocket bloom your speed of
your gas is based on what gas it is
hydrogen being the one that tends to
come out the fastest because it's very
light at a given temperature
and uh that's the key thing there how
hot it gets well the ion engine is
basically using it like an old vacuum
tube to shoot the things out the back
if you try to really increase the
density on something like that in terms
of how much it's thrusting out to get
that higher power ratio you're going to
start getting heat and that's going to
be problematic because you basically
have the same issue we have with rockets
which is
you know we we will melt the rocket if
every year any hotter than that so i
think that's your limitation on ion
engines i don't really expect them to
ever be a good atmospheric exit device
um
but uh
i i'm getting that basically the answer
on that one i'm afraid
william walter hi isaac when talking
about the star the earth revolves around
could you say soul
thanks for entertaining this question
and entertaining and informing me for
years i usually call it soul i think but
the problem is that with a lot of them
it's because it is solo system as
opposed to so sold but uh i think um
the problem is that for a lot of our
audience and and this is a critical
thing i always have to remember
most people coming in even they're
scientifically reminded to watch our
show
do not know what we are talking about
for large chunks of the episode and most
people don't know the term soul as as
the name for a son
uh when you know by default coming in
it's just that's a new thing to call it
that they recognize luna but they might
not recognize soul you know and so uh i
will try to pronounce this soul though
now i think about because i've always
been called saul
but uh that's with that in mind
thank you merv johnson for your super
chat what are secondary tech implied
from a working alba
alcubierre drive they'll keep it off
expanding and contracting space and time
artificial gravity or anti-gravity
easier fusion what else happy
anniversary gravity and anti-gravity
would be the big one there because with
those you should be able to actually
compress space-time in front of you or
expand it behind you um this
particularly to compress and funny will
be the more important part i think in
some ways
um
you can kind of constantly fall forward
that helps a lot even it's like the uh
kind of concepts we see with like the i
believe it's the differential drive
um one of those hypothetical ones that
relies on things like negative mass
actually existing uh for the warp drive
to really exist as
as a faster light method i think you
have to have negative matter or
genuine negative energy and i think
people often mistake we say negative
energy
um yeah we discovered negative energy
something like that they mean lower than
the vacuum level or the base vacuum
level that's that false vacuum or vacuum
energy level they don't really mean a
negative quantity as opposed like we
cancel out normal energy you know it
doesn't quite work that way and if we
find those things change a lot something
you can go ahead and say yep warp drives
or balls they should walk
albert jackson says happy anniversary
isaac and sarah i have no questions
today surprise but i'm here watching as
always here's to hopefully many more
anniversaries
thank you very much
so uh and again as i mentioned today
this note uh sarah suggested while we
were engaged she should come out and ask
me questions that would make the format
a little bit better than me kind of read
them off and answering them and i agreed
that we didn't actually get a chance to
implement it until after we came back
for a honeymoon so that was that very
first one i think
i can't remember if it was the first one
that i still didn't normally in may or
if we actually
switched over that very first may or not
but it has worked out a lot it was a
long process to convince you that you
would look at the camera more if i was
talking that's probably true too that
was mostly used because it was hard to
go back and forth to reading the
questions and it sounds but it was
something i was asking them anyway but
there are a lot of folks involved in the
live stream and it does make it a lot
easier like um
there's a lot of podcasters who do this
daily the live stream thing and
obviously practice helps with everything
but uh yeah i don't know how they would
do that without a relatively large crew
and of course most of the ones that look
good do actually have a crew involved so
absolutely well
alexei kirian thank you for your super
chat he wants to know you talk a lot
about lasers being used to push
spacecraft to high speeds but is it
viable to use light generated by the
craft itself for this
no not really um the idea is well
if you do it at that point in time it
becomes what's called a photon rocket
right uh photon rocket and i'll give you
two examples of how you would do a
photon rocket in a second the problem
with the photon rocket is that you're
only getting the actual regular rocket
equation set up of your emitting
something it's a great fuel if you've
got to condense like that i mean this
one out there but it's still not going
to be as good as a laser sail in terms
of both the reflection mirror aspect
which is going to double
your uh your
um
your gain out of that and the fact that
you're still following the rocket
equation which means you're carrying
your fuel with you uh immediately if
that is your fuel it makes a lot less
difference but
um i think you'd almost always use that
launch assist of having the stuff so how
would we actually do a photon rocket
realistically uh antimatter is basically
a photon rocket technically you get
other byproducts besides photons from
antimatter though but same difference um
the other one would be and i would say a
neutrino drive would also work as this
too although it's not a photon like that
point be a neutrino drive but they go
very nearly the speed of light
um possibly a dark metal drive depending
if it's wimps or not but the idea being
like let's say i'm in a perfect box that
was me aligned
it was reflective to frequencies of
light
and it was a perfect mirror right
meaning it could bounce light back and
forth trillions and trillions and
trillions of times and not lose a single
photon and during that normal
deodoration well now you can fill that
thing up with light and slowly release
that from the oil light cage and that is
a fuel source like antimatter only
better in some ways um and then of
course uh hawking radiation off a black
hole could do something like that too
but like anything with the rocket
equation you have to carry your fuel
which means as you get close to what
that you know that lock exhaust velocity
is of that fuel you start having to
carry a lot more fuel relative to you
know to the master ship and we don't
want that and then of course with the
laser making is the photons coming in
and then it is going right backward so
it gives twice the momentum
the ship bounces off it whereas with
just any minute out the back one
momentum so that's the advantage of that
there the downsides of obviously is your
fuel's not on board which is you got to
maintain that lock you're dependent on
that log and of course that lock is hard
to maintain that's the hard one plus you
need that lock you need that device at
the other end of your destination to
stop you so
alexi sent us a smiley face and said by
the way happy anniversary so i think
he's very glad we got to his question
um eric johansen thank you for your
super chat why do intelligent hive minds
in sci-fi always have to use ridiculous
telepathy can't they just talk to each
other
low bandwidth actually that's a very
good point to raise uh if you think
about you know we do actually pack a lot
more data into our spoken voice and our
body language than our text we tend to
forget that raw text you know doesn't
contain that much information but if you
go by say my voice and i know my voice
when i'm narrating the show is 180 words
per minute i can figure out the length
of an episode in advance off of that
that's just tend to be where i'm at so
180 words per minute well let's reuse
the old bit data then assume that was
all of what
180 bytes per minute of data that was
compressing through there you know maybe
a whole kilobyte per minute that's
really slow your kilobyte per second is
really slow i would kill by per second
was actually a faster net rate but
nonetheless that's a really slow rate if
your high of mind has do it by spoken
like that not gonna get a lot of data in
there that could work better with some
creatures that like i think one of our
examples we use the alien languages was
they had a you know 4x4 74 grid of
eyeballs they blinked really really fast
or emitted lights from that might allow
you with something that moved at that
kind of speed but not a very good high
of mind if it's only on a spoken level
and of course you might say well if it's
at the spoken level what's an example of
a high mind
us we would be an example of a hive mind
and as i point out we are a very limited
form of networked intelligence or hive
mind and you know going back to our
earlier tribal days and we expanded to
be able to increase that to calm people
up or send people messages or runners
and at one point with the writing we
learned how to actually network dead
people into our hive mind because a
written language allows you to
incorporate the undead into
people who wrote things you know
centuries ago into your network
intelligence so
interesting concept for that
potato says hello love the channel i
think i have watched every episode if
time travel was possible could we
theoretically enter a black hole
and then time travel back in time with
all the new knowledge learned
there's a lot of ifs in that one
um you know obviously if you've watched
all the episodes you tend to know my
view on on time travel i think we've
done two independent episodes not alone
i don't tend to be a big fan of it but
i
i view the
the idea that that black holes really
let you time travel or travel in world
wars to different locations
i really do view that as kind of an
artifact of the math it's there right it
is one of the solutions in
einstein's general relativity equation
or ethos um and
it says yes that you could
hypothetically do these things i tend to
feel that that is that is
limit yourself to an assumption of a
math is right as opposed to the physical
laws these universal rights and the math
applies where it does
um so i don't expect that to be the case
but yeah in theory if you could get into
a black hole there are options for time
travel there um i think they'd have to
be closed time-like ones though because
otherwise you get all those
paradox issues which you it's easy
people get when you move backward in
time you're moving information and
energy backward in time too so let's say
uh i got stuff falling backward in time
well now the universe has more energy to
wherever i have time travel to than it
did before that changes everything right
there because now you got more energy
density and gravity in that spot that
that thing is emerged at that wasn't
there previously it affects all the
universe around etc um for those of you
who've seen the black hole bomb uh
concept from koskizok you could
potentially set up a doomsday weapon
around this the same way you could with
a wormhole
uh by just dropping something into it
over and over again backward in time so
you just have to start opening up
options like that and that gets
worrisome though you can't do that trick
with warm horse when you drop it into a
gate that sends it back up and keeps
dropping it that will actually lose
energy as it goes back up the top that
won't boil gate uh see your episode on
what was more discussion on that so i
don't go down that betrayal
jamie russell thank you for your super
chat i use my wife's faces especially
when i know i'm going down laboratory
let's go
why wouldn't we presume the earth is
near the center of the universe if we
notice galaxies
nearly all going away from the earth in
all directions that's the that i would
say is the most obvious conclusion you
can make off of that uh this is a
problem time
the copernican principle says that we
are mediocre it might be our
you know principle that we're just part
of the universe which have been infinite
in size under the time they were
discussing this they thought there was
infinite number of stars otherwise it
would collapse together
based on all available evidence the
earth is the center of the universe
now you say what okay because the
universe goes out in certain direction
from where we can see based on all
evidence the universe is centered on
earth that is what all the evidence says
all the common sense applied to that
says it's like i'm standing in the
middle of a warehouse and i have a light
that lets me see for about 10 feet
around me i should not assume that i am
the center of the warehouse just because
i can see the same distance in every
direction so we assume the universe is
much bigger than the area we can see
there's a lot of reasons to think that
this is true besides you know the common
sense extrapolation but yes the earth is
the center of the known observable
universe
all right next question is from kimmel
obu
love your channel isaac let me grab a
drink and a snack and speaking of which
what do you see as the current future of
farming factory farming is the current
cutting edge but what's on the horizon
for us
you say i got a tractor sitting outside
the window
it's futuristic there until the fields
dry enough let's do anything with it um
for those that know uh sarah and i have
a farm here that this is where i
actually add there's a farm outside of
here uh and she grew up following i just
grew up in the country so i called me
but
i have views on the idea that we would
do less open air
farming but there is one problem with
that you can produce way more product
inside a climate controlled situation
even just like a greenhouse cheap
greenhouse possibly the plastic or
polycarbonate made out of you know bio
fuels bio you like such as
various bioplastics you can do that
and that will give you higher production
and that might
potentially actually give you a net
profit down the roadways we're not
really there yet depends on how much
automation is involved in the system
uh however
while i do not believe the earth's
population is
going to decline anytime soon or at all
uh and i think it's going to continue to
grow i do think that growth rate is is
slowing off and right now there's more
than enough available land when managed
properly with just known techniques used
in developed countries to feed i'd say
probably 20 billion people without
having to hack too much into the rest of
the
setup obviously it depends a lot on you
know what areas you're considering
protected are you gonna treat your
pasture land is protected are you gonna
have pasture land for animals or you
know are you going just to
strictly a vegetarian or you know
feedlot style thing as opposed to
pasturing your cow or you giving them
grainy grew
those all change the number around on
how much you can sport sodas if you
switch to a more
efficient algae-based food or if you do
more gmos but there is no
problem right now requiring us to be
more efficient in terms of requiring
like green housing over all of our farms
to produce enough food for everybody and
i really would not expect that in the
coming
decades but if we do get severe climatic
shifts for instance you might see a lot
of that existing on open farms that are
now in place because at that point in
time you got the farm already there
established you might decide you want to
close it over so you keep in better
moisture or keep out you know improve
your drainage there's a lot of options
on that i think the big one the takeaway
is the future of robot farming in the
near future it's not that it's
hydroponic so it's not that it's
shifting to a closed greenhouse
environment it's then shifting to
automation automation automation
automation
in lowest part the biggest one because i
don't think people are the embracing the
genetic engineering aspect of crop
system
automation they seem more comfortable
with
being able to improve things as you go
along the the speed the efficiency and
the back braking aspects it really is
nice to have an enclosed cab on your
tractor with air conditioning bluetooth
radios especially when you have bees yes
yeah
yeah get those started again soon
um
okay so thanks if you read it
says if most super tech sci-fi we see
basic shapes spheres hexagons etc could
this be because we send scientists and
engineers to space and not artists and
designers
um you know
there is a desire for beauty in these
environments and one things i mentioned
in our upcoming megastructures
movie it's called a movie it's the
megastructure compendium but it's moving
life um is that you would expect a lot
of these uh what we're calling them
because we can bcw megastructurals
um the ones like the flat earth or
sombrero planets that those exist in in
a future not because they're common but
because when you're building millions
and millions of engines you know o'neill
cylinders you got the funds to build one
or two of these other types too
um indeed you might want to be doing
them just a way to store heavy mass like
your stored up fusion fuel however when
you go down the street you look at the
houses nearby and what do you see you
see a-frames right a-frames because
that's what you must work with or
housing for timber when you look at uh
skyscrapers but you mostly see big
rectangles why because that's what works
best with steel
um we had a lot more ultras in rome
because they could use you know that was
their height of their way of supporting
heavy structures um we can do much
biblical buildings now which is why you
don't see quite as much ocean dome stuff
in our stadiums for instance or large or
lecture hall is not a toyotas we don't
have to use an ultra setup to hold the
building up
um
so yes it's beautiful to have all these
wonderful artistic buildings with their
non-rectilinear designs and things like
that i can't remember the one
architect that does
i think it starts with g but he does a
lot of non-rectilinear shapes
and uh those i think will always be the
minority though and uh that might change
we the point that we got super strong
materials as cheap as dirt which might
happen with something like graphene um
or diamondoids
uh and it might change if uh we have a
lot more automation construction
right now for the next few generations
at least i tend to assume that we would
always see that same a-frame setup same
then for space habitats and
megastructures they might do
all sorts of really cool bizarre shaped
things but i think you'd still see that
standard of let's do a lot of cylinders
let's do a lot of rings let's do a lot
of hexagons
leighton brown isaac i love your content
in an infinite universe where everything
that can happen will happen what type of
planet or system would you most like to
explore
me personally this is ironic because the
episode just got done recording his life
as a planetary explorer which is
uh kind of came out of an episode we
were doing that turned into a trilogy
instead
um
that will come out sometime in july i
believe uh but uh you know what would
life be live as a planetary explorer and
you say well
what would be a cool place to explore
and the thing is everything comes mind
is examples from some book i've read
and uh started saying where would i be
exploring well here on earth in some
virtual reality where those have come to
life
um
i think for me the one i'd most like to
explore though personally would be like
a really ancient eco monopolist one this
place where they just done the layer
after layer after layer for billions of
years and then now it was an empty out
tomb ward and you just got to explore
all of that because it would be endless
archaeological digs that to me is is the
one that would be most awesome to
explore eukaryopolis gone to ward
all right last question before the break
here
um
i will do a fun one
niall wants to know what kind of music
do you listen to
um okay that's a good question before we
go to break um
it depends on the genre classics wise
revivals bolero is my personal favorite
um let's see
i would say probably the one that i tend
to think of as sting is my favorite
musician
overall i i've loved his work since the
late 90s and he's been producing longer
uh sting from the police um
then after that
it's a phantom metallica nirvana less so
than foo fighters actually like the foo
fighters incarnation that banned more uh
alice in chains garbage
uh there's a lot of them i was i'm a kid
of the 90s in the 80s i grew up on mtv
so a lot of those
let's go ahead and head to break and
we'll see you in about four minutes so
we'll be on break for a few minutes and
it's a great time to get some more
questions in for part two and for our
lightning round at the end as well as
get drinking a snack
this will also be the last chance
getting live questions till summer time
as next month our live stream will be
coming live from the international space
development conference where i'll be
giving a talk on megastructures and
their re-broadcasted their crowd and on
this channel at our usual time they were
nice enough to give me the 4pm slot on
sunday may 29th
prepping for that finally got me off the
fence to redo our original episode zero
the megastructural summary from way back
in 2014
and a couple weeks after the conference
we'll be airing the megastructure
compendium which i just got done
drafting as i write this mid-break
amusingly on april 1st it clocks in at
the moment at 17 000 words our usual
main script my sponsor announcements is
generally about a quarter of that to a
third of that for long episodes and it's
probably going to have a run time of 100
minutes making it our longest episode
ever but i've decided not to cut it down
or break it into multiple episodes i
knew it was going to be a long one i
suspect that's the major reason i've put
off remaking in so long as i not only
wanted to redo the original but getting
all the new mega structures we discussed
since then and actually a lot we've
never gotten to discuss at all it was
around 100 entries all alphabetical in
the end or at least as the time i'm
writing this i suspect for the sake of
preserving my vocal cords i'll ask sarah
and maybe a couple others to help
narrate it before we get back to the
show since i'm probably still making
another cup of coffee on the break in
real time we had a good question from
calvin green after last month's show he
asked if nuclear bombs are bright enough
to be used as interstellar signaling
devices and the short answer is yes
easily and the longer answer is no
one of the problems with seeing nuclear
blasts on a planet as a technocentral
for instance annoying that it might
indicate technology is on its way out on
their world is that they are both
overshadowed by the overall brightness
of that planet and something of a white
light source our ideal interstellar
signal is a directed beam on a single
tight band of frequency or wavelength
and not be in a place or range where
it's just impossible to really
distinguish it from noise now if someone
does have a telescope trained on a
planet that can give any sort of detail
then yes they'll see an anomaly of
brightness a megaton nuclear bomb gives
off about 1 50th of the energy hitting
earth in any given second and sunlight
itself doesn't really vary that rapidly
in intensity plus you probably have a
scope on the sun too and we'll know it
didn't cause that blip most of that
light is going out a few seconds so a
replay is going to give off some very
clear telltales of a nuclear blast
especially was on the night side
including lots of emission and
absorption lines
alternatively as an actual signaling
device like a flare gun in space it's
not bad a nuclear blast designed to
serve as a single flare though would be
even better you could potentially rig
one up as a bomb pulse laser on a given
frequency and direction in which case
that might actually be detectable
outside the galaxy but you could also
build the case around one to essentially
absorb and re-emit much of the energy in
a specific distinct band like a
fluorescent light or mercury lamp and
that might come to be the sos of
interstellar space especially as the
blast would have some red or blue shift
with the ship's speed that could be used
to help determine where escape pods or
more likely escape freeze or tubes might
have drifted to you by the time you
arrive
there's a number of other possible ways
to use a nuke or nukes as a signal too
maybe a topic for a future episode so
great question calvin i hope i answered
it as usual we don't have time for every
question even with a lightning round and
most folks miss the live session and see
the replay so i try to get the questions
folks leave afterwards in the comments
section and pick one's answer on the
breaks the next month though of course
not next month this time as i'll be
giving that talk i mentioned a couple
minutes ago alright let's get back to
more of your questions
[Music]
here we go
all right welcome back everybody and i
had a timing thing right there for and i
still missed it i was having fun
watching the little robot character get
his drinking snack and dinner he's gonna
become my automatic default remind me
come on back to it though this time it
was using the mushroom cloud was on the
delayed signal so for anyone who doesn't
know that usually these things don't go
completely live there's like a 20 second
lag time between whatever i say and
whatever shows up so that's over on
another screen so
there's like four or five screens up
here and i think should still use your
tablet and phone too at the same time
yeah distractions all right well let's
jump right back in and clash says with
the in solidus and uranus missions
heavily considered by nasa how far off
do you think fast cheap exploration of
the solar system is
um i think honestly i would say it's
going to be inside this
not this next decade everyone's playing
a little bit too much stuff in this
decade it is amazing what we've gotten
done uh you know in terms of
uh just
this new commercialization approach to
space that we always hope for the 90s
and thousands and see it developed and
now it's here you know
and i don't think we can see a sudden
upswell in robot probes going out this
decade but i think of 2030s as the time
we launch all the you know the late
2020s maybe about the 2030s that's when
we launch all the probes of course
they're going to take a long time to get
there so it might be the 2040s in some
cases we get to heal back for them
jerry's stories if you had perfect
mirrors and could perfectly
column uh colemate light you could build
active support structures that use
photons instead of particles so we could
that would be jerry going by if you
haven't been to jerry's stories uh one
of our editors jerry gone that's where
he keeps live his short stories he
writes that he's recorded in audio
format
my suggestion
so that he's a great narrator so uh go
make sure you check out jerry's stories
um and uh yes you could use that for
active sport too you know it's that
pressure you could give them that same
for if you had a perfect room
temperature superconductor and magnetic
shielding
isaac bordeaux happy anniversary and
what do you think the earth will look
like in the year 3000 um i think that
the earth will look like
oh she's earth i think
i was going to say i think that by the
year 3000 you'd probably expect it to be
so many orbital structures around us in
orbit you know that terror and swami
sometimes talk about which also appears
in the upcoming mega structures video
june 9th
um
that you would probably have a rule
about people not be net by to put you
know so many lights in the visible range
on
uh all the garden slides would probably
be intentionally put into other
frequencies that were not visible
and you would probably have people
expecting to paint their their space
structures black just they weren't
reflecting the night with five billion
stars what do i expect all to look like
by then
uh it's gonna be the most valuable piece
of real estate in the universe for the
next million years at least right
uh at least all part of the universe you
know until we've been to some other
species like well we've been around for
a billion years already uh in which case
i would expect it to continue to
uh lies in value and development i don't
think it's going to turn into some glass
and concrete monstrosity
so i think you may have answered
joseph's question along the way but he
wants to know if we will make it for
another 100 years or if the ai will take
us out i don't know um i think not i
really don't
i don't think that ai will take us out i
could see ai and cyborgs and trans
humans so planting us but i don't think
they would take us out i think we'd
still be around you know
all right rahm don says hello isaac i am
a big fan and i want to ask you could it
be in theory possible to use exotic mass
to make a tardis-like spaceship that's
bigger on the inside
yes this is another
fun thing you can do with anti-gravity
or gravity control if it's good enough
too as you can start
creating spaces that are bigger on the
inside than the outside you can start
getting your closet that is the size of
the top you know that the tardis claws
as you will
and um i think that i would
be very dubious if we'd ever get
anything that that level of fine control
but
anti-gravity is one of those areas or
artificial gravity production is one of
those areas where i don't
rule it out the same way i do like
perpetual motion machines or fast light
travel because there is nothing
explicitly forbidding us from
manipulating gravitons right whereas
those others seem to actually violate
laws
i don't know that i would think that
would ever actually do the bigger on the
inside than outside thing but yes you
can warp space and time with control of
gravity
so hypothetically you could have the uh
the idea of hammer space you know the
old pointy envelope nowhere hammer space
idea which has so many applications it's
ridiculous but it's great for luggage
you carry so much luggage around with
that and since anti-gravity are gravity
controlled you can make it lighter too
so it's not just that it's big on the
inside you could pack a whole house in
there and drag it behind you we'll keep
you see i mean i wouldn't just be
theoretically packing the whole house at
that point correct yes
well well
guilty of that
we don't pack as light as we should
ramuch says if we know that dyson
spheres or swarms are demonstrably more
efficient then why don't sci-fi shows or
books ever use them
well it depends on the sci-fi writer in
question they show up in books a lot you
know they're not as but it's hard to
write something at that scale right
you as a writer are trying to produce a
story about humans
possibly aliens but humans anybody right
about people and having this this kind
of background going to even something
like the ring world right think of the
ring world novel with larry niven it's
on this gigantic structure that's over a
million times the living area of earth
and yet the story while it tries to
cover so much that
is is really more like that is the big
dumb object they're exploring the reason
why these people are going that actually
is the tale of that place
um
a dyson swarm is to me it's the
background in which you set a story
because it lets you do all these things
without ftl you have all these
artificial wards so near each other that
you can travel under known laws of
science between them in days and and
hours and weeks you know you can do that
uh so to me it's the replacement for
fashion when i travel that's its maiden
story focus a dyson swarm lets you have
millions of words
within short travel times well if you
already have ftl as something i eat so
comfortable with and even those who
don't believe it everyone's gonna exist
i'm comfortable with as a sci-fi uh tool
that you don't really need to put that
into play but i'd say that's the big one
and then of course the other one is
dyson swarms most components of rotating
habitats and things like that and while
we're starting to see those pop up a lot
more in fiction now in terms of visuals
for them they still haven't really
become that normal mainstay and they
still take a lot of special effects and
they're hard to film inside of so to
speak you know getting that quote prize
and while you're filming the desert
somewhere are you on earth
vincent cleaver thank you for your super
chat he says happy anniversary thank you
thank you
the next question is from isaac burdow
excited to see the updated
megastructures video do you think that
you will ever remake your kardashev
scale video
technically there's two episodes there
because that was when we messed up the
music and put in too loud and i didn't
want to take the video down by the time
people noticed it so i released a second
one that had no music in the background
for that uh i think we probably would i
i've rules i don't repeat episodes right
but i'm willing to remake some of the
classic ones with new updated material
and stuff like that so we probably will
see an update of the fermi paradox
compendium slash solutions video if if
the megastructures competition goes well
because again it's a 90 100 minute video
i don't really want to
start doing tons of those it's just you
know he's saying get ready to have a
very long
long
science fiction with isaac arthur or
science and futures and with isaac
arthur watching's free so that you can
give a thumbs up to that 100 minute
video
so if everybody remember that video it
does very well obviously it would be
more of the video so
but it's obviously good it's gonna
basically be a month-long project to
make like and share with your friends
yes thank you
all right eric johansson thank you for
your super chat our deadly cocktails of
specialized viruses bacteria and
parasites a good option for future
pesticides instead of toxic chemicals
that we use today um i mean in terms of
being effective a virus bombing a planet
is always a good approach
i think somebody else is like how would
you go ahead and you know engage in an
alien invasion what would you expect and
say well they want to wipe us out they
probably pepperous with their garbage as
the fleet was coming to orbit then virus
bombed us then nukas then sent in the
hundred kilos to find us individually
get the survivors um
i think that we would be very reluctant
to use artificially tailored viruses or
pest control
i don't think very many people are going
to be comfortable with the idea of us
releasing artificially tailored viruses
in the long term people get more
comfortable with that maybe right but i
think especially like if you asked me a
couple years ago well a couple years ago
if you asked me three years ago i just
said we probably could get more
comfortable with that technology i would
say that we have at least a couple
generations right now that would hear
the term artificially tailored virus to
be used around for you know pest control
and say no right
it may depend on the context though
because um
like
some infected nematodes are being used
currently in farming practices to
eliminate
other types of pests so
it probably depends on the context and
the scale sure yeah and i'd agree with
that too but uh you know again
pest control with existing bits of
biology or mildly tailored ones there's
a lot more okay to folks then
i think right now the term genetically
engineered virus is gonna be too much
for folks wow
tkg wildfire thank you for your super
chat what would be the best crops to
grow on new colonies
um
i mean
your core ones they're going to give you
that balance
of nutrients you actually have to get uh
proteins anything in the case like that
proteins whatever can actually grow on
the local regolith would be ideal too we
talk about hydroponics a lot as an
option but it is nice to actually have
that soil aspect uh so we can as a
secondary aspect actually get you some
soil production going on
um the biggest one i would say probably
something you could use for plastics i
think that probably be your single
biggest crop would be
your your
your base medium for for making plastics
out of like polycarbonates etc
probably lj
i just saw a comment that said that they
love your string thai
very old west thank you
i found a tie
i thought you said it was your pie type
here's my tie
um
isaac if pulsars are used as
interstellar gps systems how would a
navigation coordinate system be built
around them
uh badly i i post saws are an amazing
lucky find in terms of their accuracy
but you got to keep in mind
we talked about well you get the poor
source all over the galaxy that's a good
way to find your location if you fell
through like a warp portal into some
weird part of the galaxy or universe and
where you were you could start checking
pulsars assuming that warp portal just
conveniently dumped you at the same
point in time too which is
not really how that kind of stuff would
work um
otherwise though you'd be a lot better
off
taking some local red dwarf or star
putting some statites around it as your
power supply and then picking a
frequency of sound and then doing
exactly what you do gps right now
this is my identifier code and the time
is this is my identifier code and the
time is and from that you listen to five
or six others and say aha and your time
is down to millions or billionths of a
second
which lets you get pretty accurate which
is kind of nice when you're dealing with
speeds that might be in excess of
kilometers per second and want to know
where you're actually at uh pulsars your
accuracy might be might be milliseconds
which is not bad especially trying to
figure out where in the approximate
region of space you are but it's not
going to let you really be working
accurately inside the solar system
joseph says given that humanity has
survived to this extent what is the
possibility that there is an external
alien force protecting us
um i would guess probably i mean if but
this is one of those ones where you
cannot actually tell from the evidence
around you if such thing is or isn't
true so you speculate it comes out like
simulation hypothesis are we in a
reality are we not
uh the idea that there is a benevolent
outside alien force or entity you take
your pick right is basically to follow
the idea of
is this the setup that we'd expect to
see
based on their motivation to help us
right they say well if their idea is
they don't want us to suffer any sort of
pain or home then obviously then they
wouldn't exist because this isn't a
harmless or painless existence but at
the same time if their goal was to you
know and again you start going through
that list and then your guesstimates as
good as mine for that but you cannot
answer a question like that from extern
you know external evidence around you
you are basically trying to say
based on this external evidence
and the assumption of what their
motivation is does it fit
and that's kind of your limitation on
that we'll talk about that more in the
god like aliens episode that is actually
up on the screen above my head right now
coming out may 5th
all right sam edward hello isaac first
off happy anniversary thank you in many
sci-fi stories precursor races are often
major parts to a story but seem to at
least to me very unrealistic how would
you rate precursors
um one of my favorite pages on tv tropes
which is is like a black hole of a
website that you'll get lost in for
hours it's what's the wikipedia that way
you start opening up new links on new
links and new links to you got 40 links
open on your web browser and all the
different articles but tv tropes i think
i actually have an entry there too
they have a precursor page on benevolent
precautions neglectful precautions and
abusive precursors and they go through a
lot of sci-fi races and try to hold them
accountable and i would love to actually
do you know some side episodes one day
on on just like which these classic
science fiction precursor races qualify
as which and for which reason abusive
precursor races are they hate us they
kind of or they don't they just don't
like us all i think your hp lovecraft
prequel so it's like cathedral the
benevolent ones we see those a lot of
times in sci-fi but then as we examine
them more they don't really seem that
way anymore because this question of why
don't they help out the heroes why don't
they do anything and the reasons given
tend to make them seem more like
neglectful or even malevolent abusive
precursors and of course the reason the
real reason is if they help the heroes
out on the show all the time on the book
the series will be very boring because
somebody's stepping in to help them out
constantly but it often makes them
profess very unbelievable and impossible
and again see that godlike aliens
episode for more details on that may 5th
all right we have a super chat here from
christian corello
thank you
can a dyson's form be mobile like a
giant ship and encompass multiple stars
yes
well that wasn't all of the questions
okay
also is there any way to run by you
ideas for a sci-fi novel i plan on
writing including illustrations i made
um that's a tricky one is uh well okay
forced to answer the question
yes
uh you can absolutely make a maltese
dyson style system one of those is also
going to be on mega structural
competitors coming out june 9th
but um you can certainly do
conglomerations of stars on these things
and you can move them see i'll flee the
stars episode for more discussion of
that
um
but uh especially the quasar drive which
is the best way with them um
the second question when it comes to
people writing books and saying to me
these days the answer in most cases is
is no i'm always happy looking at
illustrations i love seeing them uh but
it's just not realistic timeline wise
anymore i i i it's not what people are
offered it for and i'm still back
pending on backlogs like four or five
years ago so there was exceptions like i
hope dennis taylor reviewed one of his
novels that was great you know but uh
for the most part no not so much uh
sorry but i do suggest in case like this
though is our social media forums
because there are a lot of other writers
in there and in fact that first episode
the megastructure compendium was
actually written not as an episode for
youtube but as kind of a help log for
other people in the sci-fi forum writers
that i was legally helping out at where
they asked is this realistic or not so
it if i could i would probably put those
as my highest priorities but the problem
is
it's just too many of them
mark terpstra i heard that the solar
wind
every known element in it i'm sorry that
one didn't make sense for me yeah
if this makes is true how hard would it
be to capture these elements does that
make sense yeah um the star lifting
episode would discuss that a little bit
more but the basic idea is solar wind is
mostly hydrogen
and then it's mostly helium and not just
because that's the majority of what our
sun is one percent of our sun is stuff
that is not hydrogen helium men of
course most that's actually oxygen
silicon ion etc actually not that much
silicon valley but a lot of oxygen and
so forth um
but that tends not to blow away same as
the gas that most leaks off of earth is
hydrogen
followed by helium because it doesn't
bond anything um the heavier gas is the
more likely it is to not you know to
stay put so a lot of those heavier
materials stay inside
uh you can blow them off uh that's the
kind of the key of star lifting is that
we try to push chunks of it out there to
grab them but the solar wind itself is
almost entirely hydrogen and but there's
a lot of other elements there that
you're not really going to find just
because they're not that common but yeah
you could have that one part per
trillion of
of that material but
you know it's hard to harvest see the
stall of the episode for details
okay
we have a uh
question here one of these days go ahead
what should we do the style of the
episode someday well you said you don't
do redos yeah but i could expand on a
lot all right
ishiki brown do you think that in the
future when humans colonize planets
there will be planet-sized population
migrations like we might see in the near
future due to climate change
i don't think you'd have the population
entire planet move from from one planet
to another i think and that's the key
thing is like
we we have sci-fi that and this is
dreadful sci-fi in my opinion i
they basically say that we're ruining
this planet so we need to tailor-form
this other planet and move there
nothing we're doing to our planet right
now
would actually be harder to fix than to
set up in the first place on another
planet if we nuked this place until it
turned to glass and blew the air off and
the oceans in their entirety it would
still be easier to terraform this planet
than mars
so you know and this kind of goes in the
idea here of um
if you have a dirty campsite you can
pick up and move to another location or
you can clean up your campsite the
reason why you move your campsite if
you're a decent person is because you
would like to go see another location
not because you're a pig
fix your whole world
all right and i suspect your neighbors
will feel the same way like well we'd
like to colonize a new planet we've
jumped ours uh yeah we'll put you on the
list somewhere down near the bottom
there's other people who like that
planet too yeah
all right thanks if you read it thank
you for your super chat maybe we don't
see dyson spheres anywhere because it is
seen as a threatening weapon saying that
we can attack you with a gamma ray and
get attacked
i think the palm there is that an
advanced civilization has so many
weapons that you know uh i mean you just
can't go with that it's it's
we talk about in hidden alien
civilizations episodes why you if you
want to be left to yourself you actually
put up beacons saying here we are right
because you don't want people to just
stumble in your territory because that's
going to cause you problems you can't
just go blow people's ships up
eventually someone's going to send an
investigatory fleet and it might be an
armada that's heavily armed to say what
did you do to all ships right
the best way to keep people off your
land is past no trespassing signs and
keep off my lawn
and kind of the same way is people know
what kind of weapons you got if you're a
civilization that's ancient and powerful
and so there's no reason to hide that
those might exist especially when
they're the basis for your civilization
someone looks at a dyson sphere and they
see a potential weapon well if they look
at new york city they see a potential
weapon right because how many factories
are new york city how much money wealth
power and influenced research is done in
new york city you don't look a city like
that and say oh they are they're
homeless you know
it's like that old question right i'm
probably a pocketful with joe stalin how
many legions does the pope have or how
many divisions the answer is as many as
he needs to grab same for a place like
new york city they could armed with
teeth pretty easily just by their
assistance
all right we are wrapping up so it is
time for the lightning round are you
ready
i know but go ahead no
you don't want a lightning round go
ahead
see if you can get through something
vincent cleaver thank you for your five
dollar super chat happy anniversary see
that's an easy one and
and more outward bound star system
colonization episodes maybe pick a close
brown dwarf not a star
i think we could do that we know we're
not colonizing brown dwarfs episode
and actually if someone will send that
to me uh afterwards so i can remember
that syndra maybe we will add colonizing
brown dwarfs to the uh to the roster
cheers uh awesome guy says whoops it
just went away well somebody was having
a comment and it just vanished so if i
find it again i'll bring that one back
up um
cerny vites have you perhaps read
process physics by reginald cahill and
could you share your thoughts
i have not so unfortunately i cannot
sally
someone commented that pigs are clean
animals and that is that is definitely
true yeah is it syndra he is it was not
or at least
if so it was under another name
can you build a shell world around a
star with both near earth gravity and
livable temperatures
can you build a what shell world around
a star both near earth gravity and
livable temperature it depends on what
kind of star it is stars have a mass and
a luminosity based on that mass that do
not scale even a little bit uh and so
you have to get that right sweet spot uh
you can do it a lot easier with a white
dwarf right because it's a much lower
luminosity so basically your options are
red dwarfs and white torch you can't
turn around our own sun too hot towards
mass bert fischer says is that a
joystick to the right of you isaac it
actually is yes i've been getting way
yes the uses of that joey's sticking
late than i should and a few other
people want to know how the flying
lessons are coming
appropriate question we actually all in
structural is probably still in florida
is he back i think so he went to the uh
some convention
convention so a little behind on that
right now so it was still way better
than i am
hey
i guess that's a good thing but uh we've
had a few people uh jumping in with
happy anniversary thank you thank you
and i think i'm finally finding
where that question was before we jumped
off of it there all right it was
what do you think the ratio between gas
giants and terrestrial planets is in the
universe
terrestrials are very actually now i
think about gas giant is also a very
vague term
um i'm going to assume based on our
corner sample we have four terrestrial
and four gas giants depending how we
want to find them they're going to be a
roughly even mix plus or minus an order
of magnitude so i'm going to go out
there on limb and say that gas giants
were not out number terrestrial plants
by more than 10 to 1 no terrestrial
plants outnumber gas giants by more than
10 to 1.
okay
would would it would
the nuclear bomb be the equivalent of a
galactic weapon that keeps the peace
with mutually assured destruction
uh i think
a key thing and for those kind of groups
during the court war we all have more
different viewpoints on this but
mutually assured destruction is not a
new concept it's just they got tagged in
there for um the cold war civilizations
when they are numerous not of them uh
spinary situation where we have lots of
them all exist in the state where they
could really severely wound or
each other if they are willing to throw
everything they had at somebody but
leave them exposed and weak to other
people and that is that mutually assured
destruction concept as it shows back up
in previous civilizations before nuclear
bombs you don't have to have a doomsday
weapon individually to make people feel
that way but once you do some level of
technology it still works you know
nuclear bombs are still incredibly
potent weapons at the interstellar scale
it's all about where you're hitting with
it you know you're like
maybe you can blow one up with a real
cylinder well an o'neill cylinder as a
manufacturing center can probably build
thousands of them so if you might need a
trillion of them blow up a dyson swarm
well you've got a quadrillion on hand
you know
this is a lightning round okay faster
answers we've taught me correct
scott ferguson says within the
simulation hypothesis envisioning our
own capability to create these
simulations in the future do you think
that simulators implement limitations to
stop us from creating our own
simulations
possibly uh and actually that's the
point i did not cover in all coming
simulation hypothesis relook episode i'm
not going to use the word reboot because
it's different material
but i'd say that would make a lot of
sense except it's a bit of a giveaway
right you have to make them think it
would be impossible to try and then then
they look into it they find they can't
do it when they expect they should be
able to do it could be a hint you kind
of set things up so it looks like it's
impossible from the get-go remouk says
do you consider it possible that life is
so uncommon that we might never
encounter naturally occurring aliens
i hope not i i'd like to think that the
universe has a lot of at least simple
life in our galaxy that's why i keep my
fingers crossed for plants covered in
algae and simple organisms um but uh
it's a big universe you know it's a big
universe i hope we can find something
else in there too
to at least find at the animal stage but
we'll see that's the big thing we'll
have to find out bill spooner says isaac
what would be the ideal physical body
for an uploaded consciousness or an ai a
normal robot like today's or some sort
of soft robot or a body made of
claytronics
electronics probably but i can never
quite get over the idea of having like a
spider tank chassis with you know big
gatling guns on the shoulders did you
just say spider spider tank chassis no
spider no no
can you please rethink that
next i i'm having you rethink that
a non spot it's like a six legged one
instead of like
eight
that's just bad that's a mosquito a
non-bipedal chassis
um i i don't think we got through this
one earlier
what do you think of the genus model and
how would it allow faster than light
travel through what amounts to
hyperspace but without requiring
negative energy or exotic matter
what was the name again
j-a-n-u-s
oh janice
um
seo hypo space episode because i'm not
going to give you details on that in a
short period of time
next do you think that flying cars will
have loud muffler customizations and
other
annoying accessories like we see in cars
today or showing off accessories
depending on who's asking so the
hyperspace one i actually don't think it
will work though it's a nice idea for
the ones i used to live in a resort town
before we moved out here to the farm and
during the summer motorcycles would go
by by their hundreds of the time
because we had a big motorcycle rally
that would take place they are very good
for local economy and of course i always
found myself wondering why don't people
put a muffler on this
giant machine
and of course the answer that i find
myself thinking is because they would
like to make it even louder so yes the
answer would be yes or like uh when my
younger brother pulls in the driveway
and you're like man that truck is loud
and he's like do you like it i i was
trying to amp it up a little bit
morning star says just wanted to say hi
and i love your work you put everything
so simple that even a former sailor can
understand keep doing what you're doing
thank you very much
albert jackinson hello from california
hi albert good to hear
shogun love from russia
thank you
um
someone says hey from ukraine thank you
too airplane for starring isaac and his
co-pilot thank you
um i think that i've gotten through the
majority of the questions here i was
just looking to make sure because it
jumped a couple times and i thought we
skipped a few but i think was it uh
given the existence of extremism okay
there we go
i got i've got to open another screen
somebody's just locked up you can read
that one if can you read that one your
screen is locked up okay i'll read that
one to you that was a super chat from
christian corello given the existence of
extremophiles like dinococcus
radiodurons and solar flares from red
dwarfs apparently erupting from their
poles does that boost the chances of
life on proxima centauri b
wow so weirdly my screen is locked up
gonna keep it on sale for the moment and
i guess it's probably a good sign to
stop i like the idea that extrema files
will be available to us on redwolf plans
i think people terribly misunderestimate
the
probability of uh red wolves hosting
life and i i've all been too tightly
locked too i think we'll find a red
dwarf planets have lots of simple life
on them and i think we'll see extreme
fires that are doing even weirder things
we've already found so extreme virals
are the the
kind of the thumbnail of the nose of
those who assume that life had a really
thin narrow spectrum it could survive
into and so on that note with the idea
of isaac saying that alien life might be
a lot more common than we previously
indicated although probably very simple
alien life we'll go ahead and close out
so i'm not i can't wave the screen
because it's not showing up on me but
okay
for you me and you bye
thank you for two years of my wonderful
pro co-host here so your fellow author
and we will see you in may live from the
international space development
conference
