recent episodes and general science
Concepts and news we'll be starting in
just a moment and feel free to put your
questions right into the chat for our
Moz to come and scream and please try to
keep them clear legible and
understandable as always we welcome
super chats to help support the show and
you can also find links to our websites
and other options in the episode
description with all that said welcome
and let's get started
good afternoon everyone and welcome to
science and futures of the Isaac Arthur
live streaming this day on July 30th
2023 and as always joined by my lovely
coach and wife Sarah Palo although so
we'll go ahead and take twice your
questions and as always please put them
in as clear and concise format as you
can to get them in the chat segmentally
be late on the BDS today all right do we
need to start off with we do we have a
question from Albert Jackson who's a big
fan of the show and a regular he said
recently I read a chapter of Starry
Messenger by Neil deGrasse Tyson and in
the chapter about exploration and
Discovery Neil appeared to demonstrate
with examples from 1870 until now in
30-year intervals change in technology
was always exponential due to how ideas
are spread
this is different than the singularity
at least in the way I understand it what
do you think of this idea
since if I remember rightly you have
said in the past that Singularity as an
idea is too simplistic I think that's
well I think that's probably not what
he's going for there you say that's a
different thing either I don't want to
put words in his mouth but the the idea
though is we can chewy pick things very
easily when it comes to technological
progress I'll give you an example
something else that's grown in roughly
30 years intervals of the human
population uh in fact in the last
century it doubled every 50 years that's
exponential growth so if I'm just
looking at something that seems to be a
essentially growing thing in that time
wouldn't it seem like we'd expect to
have an exponentially going resource of
exponentially going population because
you have exponentially going people so
if you suddenly stop having that then
that wouldn't be the case but we
actually had more than that right we
went from a civilization at the
beginning of last century where most
people could not read even Western
countries
and yet over that Century we went to one
in which going to college became almost
routine it was something that a very
large percentage of the population did
as opposed to our royalty and a lot of
footstep and they could actually have
Creos in that so we probably went from
having maybe one in a thousand people
working in science and jail in some
fashion to probably more you know
probably a few percent at least and that
population went from being about one or
two billion to being about six or seven
by the end of the century
so why would it be the least bit
surprising that we had an exponential
grow in technology and why we assume the
technology itself was what was media's
expense to grow faster this is one of
those things where we you knows in
trouble by basically engaging in new
morality a lot of times with science
it's how you think the asteroid belt
must be a destroyed uh Planet just
because it walks out in terms of
distances if we're very picky about how
we should look at the number intervals
of plants in AU
um
I don't think there's any reason to
think that we're having an exponential
growth in technology because technology
somehow exponentially grows itself it's
a feedback process of tons of different
variables I invent a better farming
technique and now I got twice many
people and I get more research done
alternatively I invent a better battery
and that itself can be very handy but
does it result that might be more of a
technological jump but doesn't result in
a doubling population so it's not as big
a technological increase right which
piece of technology has been rapidly
improving and how does that affect
things to to just kind of fit in that
Cove like that it's either overly
simplistic or it's a trivial Assumption
of course technological projects has
been going up the last century we've had
so many more people working on it
putting so much more funny into it
things like that and at the same time
how do you actually measure
technological progress It's not a it's
not a new game with a tree you know
which is like one step two step three
step four step
um we have long periods where it's been
relatively slow now it's been faster
than last century or two will that
continue don't know right uh we have no
way of knowing that's going to keep
going on indefinitely but we can't just
assume that a lot of processes in nature
will show a core that fits very well for
good reasons and it's like changes
Dynamic we get to another boundary
condition so I don't think that's
terribly relevant I I see what he's
going for there and I've seen from other
folks too but I again agree with the
Assumption that's going to keep coffee
up all right it looks like we're getting
quite a few uh questions in the chat so
I'm going to try to keep uh picking some
of these ones that have a little quicker
answer for a time uh we have a question
from Rob Hawk he wants to know what the
Sci-Fi novel that you mentioned
previously about humans encountering
intelligent aliens that were not
sentient does that one ring a bell yeah
that would be Peter wants Blindside
um Blindside Peter Watts I want to say
2010-ish but it's in the last sense so
it was our first book of the month
actually I think although asthma had a
short story that was our first first
book of the month
um Peter wants inside great level
all right then we have a question from
Clash does Mercury have the potential to
become a major exporter of raw materials
transfer windows to the other planets
are frequent and it has no atmosphere
which makes shooting stuff into space
easy oh yeah we had the episode called
Nazi Mercury uh some years back was the
second innovation of us doing um the
Outward Bound series between the you
know the big three like Titan balls and
um Venus we came back and did uh Mercury
and I thought what was fascinating about
that was just seeing how much more
options they really bought a colonized
place than we tend to think and I I
would say that in some ways it's one of
the best colonization targets but it's
we're going to start saying well what
exactly we mean by colonizational
settlement does mean people really live
there much or is it more of an idea that
uh you know that's where we really
resource extracting from and the
potential is simply as you say the
gravity is not that High
um you has no atmosphere on the way
there's a great power source to run
something like an electromatic rail
system and there's no clouds there's no
quick nights so you have a steady power
supply the whole time and so you can
just file things off follow you have to
follow you into space and it's got
almost as much material in it as Mars
does and that makes it like number five
for reasonable export in the solar
system
awesome so thought criminal says what is
your opinion of the leaves or
yadkowski's claims that IA will almost
certainly lead to human extinction do
you agree with him and what do you think
are the odds of AI Doom no uh and and uh
I have a lot of respect for what goes on
today on at uh less wrong in terms of
just kind of thought experiment stuff
you know locals baskets Etc very
interesting is a basic thought
experiment but we we really get this
trapped with a singularity of just
assuming inevitability of these things
what does it take to stop technological
progress you know nothing literally
that's all you gotta do is do nothing we
spend huge amounts of effort to maintain
technology progress I regularly get
involved in fundraising efforts to help
out on science I got a little one could
have seem to try to help out on New
Horizons and some other projects like
that it takes huge effort to keep
pushing science forward not just
resources but convincing people that
want to pay money for it
um so if you want to stop AI progressing
you have to do is say we're done
no more money yep
and I think people just they're all Pros
as we say well history is like a wheel
well a wheel is an artificial machine
you make that wasn't pointing to point B
in a circle and then stops when you want
to history is not like that it's not
cyclical that way not some kind of
constant wheel around things change each
time and that we all again goes from
point A to point B and then stops right
do not assume history has some kind of
inertia that Force things forward that
we cannot stop it's a social construct
everything we do is what we want it to
be if we choose to stop doing this
research it stops or as we tell the kids
you have choices and choices have
consequences
Mr Mahan says what key technology would
make Interstellar colonizing viable
um
uh E.I
okay
um I mean it doesn't have to be human
intelligent and something in that book
because we just talked about Peter Watts
Blindside novel is a good reminder and
it's a big concern these days is that in
that novel they're not human intelligent
but they're a huge threat and shows how
intelligence they say oh they're
important the biggest thing with the AI
That's changed the last decade is
realizing that it doesn't have to be as
smart as us to be extinction level
threat Beyond just Gray Goose scenario
and so that's kind of the concern is we
can definitely start this stuff before
it gets to the AI human level
intelligence it's trying to figure out
where it's going to be dangerous at and
that's harder to say somewhere between
the gray goo people click maximize those
Skynet scenarios there's a danger zone
and when you stay clear of that and I
think that we can but it's it's one of
the situations where automation AI is so
useful for things like space
colonization that they you know you you
almost you don't have to use them but
you probably should so
it's like everything else we do it is it
is wakia tightrope and if you fall off
well then you fall off that sounds
painful let's try to stay on well it
might be quick and painless
I suppose we have a super chat from Ivan
fessler thank you how would we build
roads on the Moon and what materials
would we use
home
um
I would say there's a lot of different
approaches you take for that but
depending on where you're at you might
say well we're just going to scrape off
regular till we get to something less
powdery beneath you got a big dust layer
there uh you know which we get some
layer of melted something other uh Hard
Rock whatever it happens to be
well you might say well let's compact
stuff up and above so that when dust is
being pushed around by there's no wind
but a little Collision or something I've
had so it's like a blue over top
um I would almost say from the outset
that while you're a smaller process for
building modes on the moon would be to
kind of do the raised platform compacted
approach but so much is going to depend
on how easy we find it is to actually
process these things and putting power
in one advantage you have with the Moon
is you do not have to have stuff on the
ground the gravity is so low there and
there's so little wind to shake things
that you can just do raised platforms
the whole way you could have a bridge
running over top all your craters and
problems that was this thick because you
got mineral plenty and it don't have to
be that strong and you just run over top
of that you just do railroads everywhere
potentially we won't know the answer
that until we actually you know they'll
try to sell these landing pads and you
practice doing that but one of the most
important bits of infrastructure we know
after Apollo that we need to put in
there right from the get-go is those
launch pads you cannot land on that door
without a problem that vague lip and so
that's where we're going to learn how we
best build roads but that we do it I
think our next question or series of
questions here from Wolf killer Q
probably would
make a great research project for
somebody's School paper and maybe even a
great entrepreneurial business
opportunity he wants to know how the
feature how the future of pizza will
change in technology and Automation and
including How It's Made delivered and
the potentially strange new types of
pizza that may come about sounds like a
business opportunity it does well I mean
this is an example uh you might decide
the easiest way to do this is with a
drone that's got an oven in it so the
ingredients are all put in by the robot
at the I don't want to name Brian
somebody at the pizza place which we'll
call amados uh and uh
pizza oven and it used the excess heat
of running Edge engines to run that oven
as it goes to the place it is going to
deliver that pizza
that is a possibility and it might run
several pizzas at once and and do that
whole process uh or it might be that we
cook them in the you know cook them
there and the drones take away to you or
you might still be using human delivery
people for a while what if you get them
like cooked on site I mean wouldn't that
be pretty awesome but do you want one to
actually cook down they could bring all
the ingredients right to your door pick
them up what you want on the way cook it
on site okay I was thinking
one of the biggest differences the next
decade we're going to have to get used
to that's going to be that that big kind
of change we have that generational
change is that groceries are going to
start getting delivered again very
regularly and I mean as a you know minor
novelty it's not going to result in a
in everyone in the groceries delivered
all the time but I think what we're
going to see is for that and a lot of
other retail moving not to stay away
from the big box stores but the idea
that half your business is that Insight
location shopping on the other half your
business is
sending it to people at their individual
houses who have ordered and how people
best master and put that together is
probably going to be you know the
difference between who the next big wall
mulch or Amazon is and then who is the
next um
came out or some other company that went
out of business or wouldn't drop down in
business because they didn't adapt as
well and so not hmm too quiet so next
question uh Mr ACP 1911 thank you for
your Super Chat
what is your thought on this UFO
nonsense in Congress wouldn't the ocams
razor say that it is most likely that
whistleblowers are government agents who
are pushing for more black projects
dollars
um that's a possibility you know Occam's
razor has a tendency to slice people
into little bits and and not as
obviously as we would think I don't
really have to fall back on that too
much for explanations of phenomena
because if it were a phenomena a lot of
times you know occupancy's always a uh
subjective kind of thing what's the
simplest answer for that thing we saw in
the sky well a UFO actually is a really
simple actually you know and so for why
what's that weird thing moving around
this guy
um so is the idea that it's uh falling
meteorite for instance
um or weather balloon you know there are
thousands and thousands of weather
bluesy so the reason why we still have
to go for that source as the
Congressional hearings
I suspect that's going to turn out to be
a lot more all of you about nothing than
than a lot of folks feel but at the same
time I'm glad they're having them
um you know I am probably one of the
most skeptical people about aliens out
there a lot of folks like well it isn't
alien visitations with a surely alien
civilizations the Galaxy I'm not even
sure there's no alien civilization or
Hubble value at this point you know so
and yet at the same time I remember when
a lot of people in the science says
would not touch the question of aliens
with a 10-foot pole because they are
afraid they'd be kicked out of Academia
or shame now they don't have to be and
they shouldn't have been the first place
it's it's a completely legitimate area
of discussion scientifically
philosophically and as a matter of
national concern I happen to think the
answer is going to be no but I don't
think anyone should be hesitant to
discuss it at any level of government or
Academia so I'm glad for that but at the
same time I don't expect it to turn out
with the results that a lot of people
expect he will we have to you little
green men light up in Roswell or for
instance but we'll see won't we
so if you see on the screen there that
smiley face with the sunglasses said
they recently installed a pizza vending
machine at his uni the future is here
you know it's always does it catch on in
some ways to you I remember those little
package sandwiches you get Little slice
in diagonal sandwiches from the vending
machines are really popular in the 90s
or I shouldn't say really popular very
common in the 90s they almost completely
disappeared because not only do they
taste like cardboard they felt like they
should taste like coffee yeah
yuck
Andre Jones thank you for your Super
Chat how long do you think it will take
for humans to speciate in your best
guess
10 minutes
um now I think some of you given a value
on that I'm trying to know what it is
right now I saw that not that long back
as hell I would take to speciate it was
a it was a comment on one of all all
episodes even but I think they said that
with like a thousand planets you should
be able to have a speciation event in
like 50 years where you start having
ones that will not relate to each other
that seems incredibly too short to me
but at the same time
you know and then let's let's add
another one on there these things only
ever actually make sense in a
technological context because you're not
going to settle another planets uh
unless you got technology all over the
place and then you should ask yourself
how much speciation takes place because
we'll make fun of like um how easily in
Star Trek people have like half beta
Zoid half human or half folk and half
human kids and um
you know
it is Rife for making fun of because
it's very absurd in some ways on the
other hand when you've got enough
technology you can make stuff like that
happen and I hate saying the Star Trek
universe they could very easily come you
know play about DNA or just build
something composite wise some things
that they even share DNA you know these
guys use something completely different
and just make something that was the
equivalent of a hybrid because they
really wanted to that's that's the
option on the table there you can just
boot force it so I think in that context
humans don't have a really speciate
because if you had like Centaur humans
that have been injured on some Planet
like you've seen House of suns maybe
you'd still be able to find some way to
mix them back together as we want to
and if Brute Force isn't working you're
not using enough of it yeah crab do you
think the room temperature ambient
pressure superconductor is real and if
so what are its effects
um
Pew of you and checking it out would be
great I I think this is a big thing we
all getting closer to that but it's not
really one of those things where it's
like wow we're gonna make this
breakthrough where you know we just keep
pushing at it there either is or is not
a material that will superconduct at
room temperature on pressure and if if
there is we'll find it by just keep
pushing out the window a little bit if
not nothing we do is going to push that
I would say in many ways the world is
the point we've got stuff that's good
enough it just hasn't become
streamline off in terms of you know
figure out like we keep finding better
ones so why why go to two billion stars
of effort to get one working at isn't
quite as good as the one that's going to
come out a couple years but they'll get
to be a point where say we have this
material it's expensive but we can super
nut for you at negative 10 Celsius and
uh and inside a slightly pressurized
package that's great we can make a wire
that's going to do that and that's we'll
do all new trunk lines in but we kind of
embarrass you to spend a trillion
dollars on electric upgrades and uh you
know changing around all your
architecture for your electronics and
then someone comes out the next day look
I got a whole temperature one
that's that's kind of the problem that
we have with technology is we get some
new things like why don't we upgrade to
doing that and people say well
it's going to take us at least a decade
uh you know a huge amount of money to do
that and and based on the current
pattern if we wait five years before you
can get this project to roll and we'll
have something better going on so
that could be a challenge oh yeah
um Matthew K says do you think that
interdimensional travel is more likely
than faster than light
yes
um and I'll tell you why
um I think that in the involving FTL in
this universe are the way that people
tend to mean it as opposed to something
that's traveling away from us fashion
lives relies way too much on the idea of
negative things being real
um I suppose things like negative
electric charge being real which is
because it's negative because we say
it's negative it's just the opposite
right
um we have no reason to think they're
all negative quantities and in the
absence of these things existing
um you're not going to get FTL I've
never seen any method for that now the
flip side of that is there is nothing
stopping you if there is although
Dimensions or realities congruential or
whatever from going to those we just
have no evidence they exist and uh kind
of like the negative matter I suppose
except that we have reason to believe
that one might exist whereas there
should be negative matter floating
around our universe we would expect
other Universe to be floating around the
universe so if they exist and can
actually exchange matter or energy or
even just information there should be a
way to do that and uh if you can detect
them that means they're exchanging
matter or energy or information so if we
can ever detect these other universes it
strongly implies we could actually
travel to them in some fashion
the next question is from folaro and
he's talking about the German Sci-Fi
series Perry Rodin from the 60s and he
said that there had a solar system with
three planets in a single orbit at 120
degree increments would such things even
be achievable achievable is kind of the
keyboard there because you could do it
artificially that's kind of like the
kemploy rosette
um I have not read Perry wooden I've
heard it suggest a few times and I was
very popular when I was in Germany it
was uh it was a book series to hear
about a little bit more often there but
I never read it I don't know if it's
been translated or not
um but uh assuming that's that I'm
getting the right image there that you
basically have that circular orbit
around the star with three planets
evenly spaced on that orbit yeah that
one might be pushing it it helps a lot
if you got them at the 60 degree
increment because that's where your L4
and L5 all is six degrees off
um but uh I'd have to run the numbers if
three would actually be allowed but six
does anything anything above that starts
walking just fine to you just easily
until they're a ring
um and that's a chemical rosette I think
that's that's definitely an option you
have available but you only do that if
you really
really want to have big gigantic
spherical planets to all the same mass
and artificially made and put them in
circular orbits because otherwise that's
a lot of automation although to be fair
if you can make that happen you can also
restabilize that that's a big thing to
remember things like ring walls or Dyson
Sphere and say well this thing is
inherently unstable and say the people
who built that in the first place can
fix that problem yeah they can brute
force it if they only have something
more elegant but if you can build a
planet you can move a planet it's it's
similar energy levels and if Brute Force
isn't working you can't you're just not
using enough of it thought criminal says
what is your opinion of Robert nozick's
experience machine thought experiment
and how far away do you think the
technology to rep replicate any
experiences and what are the
implications I think that's like three
questions yeah and unfortunately I I
think I remember what that is but I'm
not sure
so if you want to post that back again
whether they act like the little Wiki
summary well that is again to make sure
I'm not going off on some random tangent
I'm a calling yesterday where you can
transfer experiences like Memories but
that could be I could be a completely
wrong I'm going to put a little smiling
so you can uh look at that later as well
um we have a super chat thank you
Dominic I've been going through your
back catalog and re-enjoin old episodes
which old episode do you think deserves
a go-over PS I must plug narration only
versions once more heart
I love the narration only ones at the
promise you can't really like posting a
SoundCloud I do a narration only version
a music only version and I can't really
do that to YouTube we do that one time
the Carter show scale video because I
put the music on there way too loud so I
turn around and put anyone out YouTube
penalized the heck out of you for
splitting videos like that it would it
would literally model the channel if I
would start to eat a you know uh music
only and music not only version on
YouTube so if you really want to hear
them without the music on turn the
narration only version on and give
yourself about five seconds to treat my
little intro one Lino and the star of
the main narration that's usually about
how much I space them out oh man you can
just listen to without the music uh
what's my single favorite episode that I
feel like should get more watches
um
and kind of that key one uh
maybe the original technological
singularity video
um and black wolf all means I don't know
when the big ones they're terrible
techniques video from way back was
probably the biggest catalog I've always
kind of want to do more of a companion
approach that and uh that's it that's
probably the key ones I'd say always go
back and watch those but there's other
ones where I'm surprised they didn't do
as well as I would have hope like the
double plants and emotions episode from
way way back but uh a lot of those I
think we'll be doing double plans at
some point anyway
um a lot of those ones and see if you
look if you like the title give it a
watch you know
Aunt Autumn Sun thank you for your Super
Chat have you seen the anime planetase
Planet I'm guessing it is well that's a
good question how do we pronounce that
thing so people been recommending that
to me for years and I will say that uh
Chuck sonenberg from SF debris it's a
channel on YouTube and also a website he
got around to covering that show uh like
a month or so back and I watched the
reviews of that and I started watching
the actual episodes instead and I liked
enough that it's going to be one of our
um poll options at the end of the month
for what space development thing we
should cover
and uh it's definitely very interesting
one for those who are wondering it's
spelled like planets only with a an e
between the T and the S and you know
planets
p-l-a-n-e-t-e-s and they put up little
thing that says Wanderer so that's what
plants is and I have no idea how that's
supposed to be pronounced so I think it
would just cause it Planet days that's
what I'm going with if that's not right
I have no idea but it's about people
doing space debris clearance in the late
24th century and uh it can be silly at
times but it's also kind of spot on
little bits and pieces so I do recommend
it to other people too that that leads
into the follow-up question which was
how realistic do you think that it is
um as fiction goes pretty realistic I
mean there's there's bits and pieces
that are off again and it is obviously
designed mostly around tonyotain's story
but uh it's got some neat bits it's
definitely I I feel like it's definitely
got a strong voot in hard science and
then obviously it meanders oftentimes
but nowhere to the degree that uh Doctor
Who or Star Wars or us even Star Trek
did so hard enough
um a lot of super chats today thank you
everyone for uh your contributions to
the channel and the show Horace the
great has a super chat question have you
heard of the Alexia bodrick and Gianna
mattire physical warp drive and one-way
Time Machine by positive energy
no but yes and I I was I think this
recipe pretty often for some reason
these days everything sounds familiar to
me and I could have a private caller I
just I think it's like some state of
brain absorption of data where it's like
well things don't collagen well enough
everything sounds familiar so if you've
heard of this as the answer for me it's
almost always that sounds familiar and
it might be or it might be completely
random okay well there's a follow-up
question and maybe this is one you want
to look at later as well do you think
the government
is experimenting on this technology
without actually I mean if dalpa was
screwing around with that that would not
surprise me at least but they they like
to play with anything hypothetical like
that's what their job is
um and yeah at the same time just
because you adopt was messy with
something doesn't mean that they
actually have much interest in
succeeding or success won't believe that
it will uh but again I can't
I'd be curious how they think they could
do time travel with positive energy
um in terms of
backward time travel it's pretty easy to
hit with the if you're using a positive
energy spy like Mass regular Mass you
could obviously slow time down but I
would be curious how they think they're
doing it there all right I think I'm
gonna fit two more questions in here
before the break we have a super chat
from Dave Harrison thank you resource
refining you explained the energy but
what about the chemistry how would you
reduce the ore or meld out the silicate
inclusions for example well critically
I'm a physicist not a chemist so it
sends me why Focus there
um there are a lot of folks who've gone
into that in more detail blue Origins uh
camel toe specific sub thing for that
was called it the blue Origins project
I'm referenced in there about trying to
actually do the solar panels made out of
vehicle that goes into a lot of that
there too
um I think the biggest thing is I always
tend to assume because again I'm not a
chemist so I tend to focus more on the
Brute Force energy technique on that one
is if you just dump enough energy into
it you're going to find a way to refine
the middle out of it and get the option
but obviously you use a lot of better
chemical ways doing that but again the
problem is that I
I never really much liked chemistry so I
know my Basics I got through fairly well
but after that point I leave them with
theoretical aspects of that up to people
who actually enjoy the topic and so I've
seen the papers on it I'd suggest those
to you they're going to give you much
better answer than I could
this is going to be the last question
before the break and before you get your
drink and snack I'd encourage you to pop
your question into the chat and thank
you Maya skill and the other behind the
scenes that are helping us to uh process
those questions and get them up Clash
says you probably don't remember but
last year on the sfia Discord you had a
chat with a few of us on farming Mars
you mentioned agric aquaculture sorry
aquaculture and I was wondering how
viable that would be at a large scale I
need to spend more time on the Discord
side something I do want to apologize
over these old Discord audiences I used
to go over there and actually have like
live audio chats with people at times
too and just exchange things but the
last year not just the kids but like the
food once for that have been so insanely
busy that I just but I'm down the office
I try to focus on just toying the
episodes over
um and when I have had time I try to get
to the Reddit Forum which had been
previously pre-neglected or actual main
YouTube group so I will try to start
voting back in there while I do remember
that conversation but not not terribly
well aquaculture is a logical approach
to on malls because you can just dig a
huge trench or crate or take an existing
cradle and full of water you have to put
something on top of that so it doesn't
evaporate yes you do have to put
something on top of it all the wood
freeze on its own in most latitudes and
you have that water underneath and so
you could Domino will keep that one or
fairly warm and grow fish and plants it
pretty well and as long as you put some
kind of lighter on the bottom which we
which you can do with ponds and
reservoirs anyway you'd have to worry
about the chemistry out they're getting
too bad stuff in pocolates yeah so I
think that's as good approaches and then
you just do Hydroponics with the rest of
that too but the cool thing about
aquaculture is there's so much thermal
Mass there that you don't have to worry
about the temperature variation over the
course of a day too much so we're gonna
go to break we're going to see you back
here in about two five minutes and go
grab a drink and a stack and get more
questions while one or break grab me a
drink and a snack it's a great time to
get more questions into our moderators
and I want to take a moment to thank
everyone who moderates for us during
this live stream or on our social media
forms like Discord Reddit and Facebook
all of which are linked in our episode
if you'd like to join the discussion it
tends to be a thankless job though I'm
glad to say that as social media groups
go the audience for sfia tends to be a
lot more courteous than the norm and
thank you all for that I found that most
shows our size are larger don't tend to
have their creator read or applied to
any comments and I understand why but
for me the generally positive and
interesting comments from the audience
are one of the parts I enjoy the most
about the show
are refrain from adding that I tend to
think writers actors and creators who
complain about their own audiences on
the occasions they deign to interact
with them get a little sympathy in my
book especially when it's legit
criticism about not liking how they've
adapted some pre-existing bit of a story
or history and I think they self-inflix
some of the wounds by needlessly
attacking rather than engaging that
audience
but to be fair there are some real jokes
out there and people tend to zoom in on
those comments more it's human nature
along with getting prickly when
criticized I have no specific franchise
in mind incidentally there have been so
many adaptations or sequels of fan
favorites in recent years some pretty
good some pretty horrible that's almost
his own specialized genre now and it
seems to involve a lot of needless fan
baiting and criticizing and it makes me
grateful for an audience that mostly
doesn't do that and I've never seen the
point in making nasty comments at
someone who took the time to try my show
out and didn't like it also usually when
we have an uptick in National criticism
of sfia episodes often on my accent or
impediment it tends to coincide with an
uptick in views and new subscribers so I
maybe have a bit of a pavlovian response
to nasty or commentary when we get lots
of it we are usually growing as a show
we have been of late which brings it to
mind probably from a mix of me putting
up some short form content bringing in
some other bonus content over from
nebula and doing those image photos
Copic topics hopefully a little is from
Improvement in my speech impediment too
for those curious that's all been on the
to-do list for a while but back burner
during the foster adoption process Sarah
and I have for our kids who hopefully
will be formally adopted by the next
live stream so I can start performing
them as thing one thing two and the
princess whenever referencing them
publicly also as welcome as it was to be
asked to serve as the president of the
National Space society that really is a
huge honor and I try to give it the time
and energy it deserves it shoved things
back a few months too
for our nebula Watchers I switched over
from doing extended editions to bonus
episodes late last year as our team
monitoring nebula Reddit feedback said
those were preferred and since those are
entire episodes albeit usually shorter
ones some of those I'll probably bring
over to YouTube as extra episodes after
a year or so probably not although some
I think YouTube would just decimate so
they can stay there on nebula and the
extended editions of episodes are too
for anyone wanting to join nebula
there's a discount link in every episode
this one included and this month's bonus
episode there is nomadic minors on the
moon and as a sneak peek next month is
going to be on retro causality which had
come in as the runner-up in two of our
image episode polls so I felt deserted
episode also for folks looking for
summer reading recommendations I was
doing a reread of Robert Hyland's young
adult scrimmer series from the 1950s in
advance of an episode have spacesuit
will travel which is the name of the
last book of that series although his
better known novel Starship Troopers
written the next here is sometimes
considered the final work of that
collection the better part of a century
later while they show their age
sometimes they're still awesome and
great for adults and young adults
they've got good audiobook narrations
too
I also just started the novel alien
neighbors by Nancy golden but I got to
meet and talk with during the isdc
earlier this year and I'm only a few
chapters in at the moment but it's great
thus far and a nice near future look at
how a first Contact situation might go
or go wrong for that matter
I also want to give a shout out to
Robert zubin's new book the Case for
nukes which I hadn't even heard was out
till he told me about at the isdc and
right after you've added her copies to
sign as with the case for space and the
case for Mars Zubin pulls no punches
laying out his reasoning and he makes a
great case of why we need to see more
use of nuclear energy on Earth and in
space
if you got any other book suggestions
for others looking to enjoy their inner
Bookworm this summer post those in the
chat or the comments below along with
your questions and speaking of those
let's get back to our show and more of
your questions
go all right welcome back to the second
half of our live stream q a going back
to a question about the nozick thought
experiment I was misremembering that one
that's a waiting in a jaw concept of
whether or not Hedonism in terms of um
is the greatest good just being happy
for life that's the thought experiment
that covers that we're not going to dip
in that too much right now because I'm
only that familiar with that one it's
not the one I was thinking about but
we'll try to get to that next time
so do you have any more questions yeah
we have a few shout outs Ken is
familiaris thank you for your Super Chat
Miami's last capitalist also a Super
Chat no questions just saying hi Isaac
hi Sarah and hi Arthur family
um we have a super chat from Michael
Peterson
super chats are indeed a good way to
grab attention to your posts and the
mods added either that or have a great
question
pretty well yeah
um so along those lines celerian 8 said
hello a somewhat silly question how do
you think games like Dungeons and
Dragons will change in the future
augmenting human intelligence will
heavily change how these work
um you know I think the biggest one I've
been seeing and more of a coach post
covert thing we uh like I play D D it's
actually Pathfinder but d d with uh one
group I've been doing for 20 years now
and we've pretty much had to settle on
doing it completely online since then
because so few of us live in the same
area and I would say it changes the
experience but it's you you get to be
able to do a lot more complexity of
character in terms of Dynamics because
the computer can handle so much the
calculations you have to do with the pen
and paper the whole time which is hard
if you're not again
um it lets a different group of people
play with more complexity but we're
going to get to a point with AI where I
can you know say well I want to describe
this scene to you guys and instead of
just picturing your head it's going to
pop up a little AI prompt expect that to
be the probably one of the big things
the next few years I'd say is someone
like War 20 is going to say let's add an
AI prompt generator in here so when the
DM puts a prompt in you can just show
that picture to people
um he or she anyway
um that'll be the short-term one for
that beyond that you know active
experiences like that I think are still
going to be a big seller of games that's
why I see that so much of the multi you
know MMOs but it's so hard to predict
the gaming moments if I did I'd publish
a game it'd be a billionaire
um and but yeah I would say it's
definitely still gonna have a rule
though it's it's not going to die even
if pen and paper itself
gets less common
Freedom fiend thank you for your Super
Chat you've answered one of my questions
before about the role of Ceramics in the
near future as the technology develops
what materials or components do you
think might be replaced with ceramic
equivalents in the near future Windows
um it is always possible we might get so
good with doing diamond and growing
Diamond as I actually growing
microwaving diamond in a lab that we
might start making windows out of stuff
but I think transparent Ceramics is
probably the biggest one that we'll
probably see in the next from an
economic angle that and I mean you see
with the ceramic knives a lot of edges
because you get that very thin cutting
sofas those are the big ones that I can
think of the top of my head but it's a
huge game it's like Plastics there's so
many place you do with little Metals in
general it's going to have an
increasingly large rule though in uh
day-to-day house War items I'd say
but I forget
I I just was really stuck on this idea
of diamond windows and whether or not
those might replace like engagement
diamonds especially like you know how
they used to like bring panes of glass
back in the Pioneer ages and be like
would you marry me here's a pane of
glass for your window maybe they'll
bring them back in would you marry me
here's some Diamond windows for your
house
so I finally got a jaw dropping question
for my wife here and it was the idea of
diamond-sized window so no no windows
that are
miggly that would be really
need to be more than a billionaire to
afford that we would talk about the the
remaining diamonds on that too then
you're this time that's that got try too
so that sounds like an expensive
interest at least with our Windows oh
yeah well I love that because I wanted
to replace our arched windows with
diamonds what do you think husband no
[Laughter]
they are six feet across or five feet
across and six feet high
and we have and they're south facing so
we we have at least
I don't know six or eight of those the
person who designed this house love love
large windows and in the winter time
it's amazing because it's having that
sunlight in there is so Spirit raising
but in the summer time
yeah because it's it's an air
conditioning bill that you don't want
otherwise
Sona Bella if the negative things
required for faster than light were real
how do you think the laws of physics
will handle the causality issue if you
had to bet badly bad well all right um
something along the lines of the Nokia
self can uh self-consistency principle
uh which hockey also explores something
similar to the idea that uh well I think
I usually phrase it this way
you have any number of realities that
can take place from moment a to moment B
that would still get you back to there
there are a billion different Pathways
that have somebody walking into a room
with you as planned with the exact same
state right there's a lot of ways they
can get there think of like a drop of
water falling down it can land anywhere
on the continent it ends back up in the
ocean eventually and over a lot of
periods I wouldn't have been back in the
same position maybe it follows a river
maybe it runs out a roof maybe it runs
down one side of the roof or the other
it gets there but any pathway that
doesn't have a getting nail doesn't
exist and and will just fade out like
it's basically
blaa draft force of a universe that uh
doesn't get published that's kind of the
idea that you have with things like the
Nokia self-consistency principle is that
only those self-consistent realities can
happen and the other ones will just fade
out into Quantum which we have a
precedent for so your audience is
suggesting I need white gold trim on my
diamond windows I I like my clothes but
maybe I could have Ruby's inset
um how much would the construction of
Mega projects like ring worlds and the
like be stunted by the fact that virtual
worlds are likely to be a less expensive
option so you have to repeat that
because my bed said how much will be
stunted by you know if making them out
of diamond
um which you might too by the way all
the ones that want to transparent
sections I usually knock and a lot of
people knock the idea of doing big
windows and space habitats for sunlight
to come through because glass but if you
make your amount of diamond then you you
could uh it was whether or not they
would build them because of VR I think
the mega projects yeah did you want me
to repeat it I think I got the idea
though was that they wanted to know how
to be studied by virtual reality oh wow
how much would the construction of Mega
projects like ring worlds and the like
be stunted by the fact that virtual
worlds are likely a less expensive
option way less expensive although yo
here's the thing right way less
expensive on on what metric because you
think well I've built this incredibly
elaborate thing that is so realistic but
it's so realistic it could pass from the
real deal good enough all right now I
hit the button that says
self-replicating machines go make that
because you actually did all the hard
work there already
the design was the whole Parts on that
now the machines need to go do that
thing how much effort does it really
take to tell a bunch of self-replicating
machines go build me a gigantic metal
cylinder out of that asteroid and the
answer is how much does it take to tell
a you know a seed go build me a forest
so we have a super chat from SVS Guru
2000 but we already answered his
question so thank you
ask your Void would a ship be pushed by
a still as uh thank you still laser heat
up from all the energy beamed at it
I'm sorry excuse me say that one again
would a ship be pushed by a laser Heat
up from all of the energy beamed at it
oh okay would a sleazel being pushed
right right so if I'm hitting you with a
big beam right uh and that's pushing
along that'll [ __ ] you off it isn't
heating up but the answer is yes right
um
but it's being bounced off a mirror the
whole idea is to bounce off a meal
because if it's going in and getting
absorbed you are definitely heating up
from that but joining one momentum
mounts when he bounces out the back you
get twice the momentum but because it's
going there and now going backward so
you get double the momentum so you
always want to bounce off of a mirror
and if I'm bouncing off a meal that's
say 99.9 reflected which is not that
hard to do especially with your
calibrating for basically one wavelength
um then you go ahead and say well I'm
absorbing a gigawatt of electricity
that's about to have a whole energy
that's bouncing out the back of me you
know that gigawatt is leaving one
thousandth of that behind this heat so
now it's a megawatt so you have to have
enough radiators to do that and you have
those videos on that Mio surface for the
most part too uh and if you do that
correctly you might actually be able to
do that non-on omnidirectionally so your
wasting is also giving you a little bit
of thrust so that's trick your uh so the
answer being yes pretty up your ship if
you wanted to heat up your ship you can
though right you might decide that you
would like to have you know segments of
that that big reflective meal that are
actually absorbing rather than
reflecting but before uh you know power
generation you're being sunlight absorb
it uh and uh to heat the thing up
because you might want to heat up the
object like with a comet tube inflated
off
so again my skill is doing a great job
forwarding us the questions in the
comments and he sent me one it was a
super chat with a little meme from Simon
farmer that says I was there the Isaac
drone Pizza Oven idea 2023.
Simon other one of our long-standing
members of a Facebook community in
particular
Vincent Cleaver thank you for your super
chat it says clanking replicators seem
dangerously useful for creating more
habitat in deserts on the oceans in the
tundra up in the air something short of
heat pollution death but replacing
natural ecosystems Atomic bear hugs
I'm not sure what the question on that
is but it did have a question mark
antibiotic bailhawks is uh is that is
that his name was that a
um no it says Atomic beer hugs I think
that is awesome I think he's saying if
you're replacing the natural ecosystem
machines think about how you could have
Atomic Bear Hugs instead of like just a
regular old bear I don't know but yeah
we had a black bear show up in bolo how
do you supply a couple weeks back you
know and then he visited the jail yeah
I've posted the photograph there's a
bear trying to get in the jail
this thing will get a shotgun after that
just get a safe side not that I would
put the bear down but it might you know
scaled off you shot it with some spots
or something
um
but I gotta protect the bees protect the
high so the question was whether or not
you'd replace things with um with an
ecosystem and and and to bring that
Rabbit Trail in imagine if you
re-engineered your bees to be uh instead
just collecting nectar they also you
know like you send ants instead say I'm
gonna have you collect a kernel of corn
so they go March out into the field and
half the stuff the you know the carbs
and stuff they take down their nest to
use for themselves and the other half
they most the corners off and stick them
in The Silo for you and you've
programmed them to do that you have to
lay the fail Moon Trail down for them
that does that whatever it is but that's
an example of taking
you know existing ecosystems and turning
them into machines we talked about that
without having squalls be you know
programmed to pick up garbage in
exchange for food pellets to augment
their their food Spa especially on space
stations where you might want to have a
lot more scores than be supported by the
local uh habitat naturally
um I don't know that we should be
thinking too much of there being that
that thicker line between machines
organic and machines that we build so I
just
um seen only the upcoming
um
I've only seen the upcoming videos on my
screen and I didn't know if we were
actually showing up in the chat so if
you want to check on that while I ask
you the next question
um it's actually from good easy what
Industries or businesses do you think
will be big in the next 10 to 30 years
food delivery oh I think we can get that
one earlier it looks like it's going
okay
um food delivery would be a big one
um
automated calls that is going to be an
increasingly big one
oh let's see
for ground-based Stuff let's go with
those two for now because I don't know
if I can think of too many off the top
of my head uh making Diamond Windows
oh my but I mean making better stronger
windows and
solo and batteries those are both going
to be big ones too hopefully nuclear too
but I'm not so sure about that
what is your favorite means of faster
than light travel in fiction
my favorite means well my favorite means
is is kind of a toss-up between the
infinite and probability drive from
Douglas Adams and uh the one that [ __ ]
Buffet has in the third book The Bistro
mathix driven one which uh requires the
the the breakdown of mathematics that
occurs inside restaurants for
calculating the bill and takes those
those paradoxes and things allows you to
run a spaceship and go faster on lights
while inside a restaurant by using
Bistro mathix
um those would be my two favorite ones
as to in terms of like realism for
faster and light travel
there's so many of them
um that that I would say probably
asthma's hyperspace generator from from
Foundation because and that's why it's
my favorite he just proclaims it walks
he doesn't pointy to point B there's no
discussion of how it looks just it does
and I like that because it says I know
this is impossible but we need it for
the story bam that's it no discussion
beyond that
thank you for your Super Chat Christian
corello could volcanic planets such as
the recently discovered
lp791-18d be more likely to retain a
habitable atmosphere even while orbiting
a red dwarf oh
um if you're outgassing you can keep
that uh supply of atmosphere going while
something strips it off and the question
is how much do you have to outgas uh and
this is a hard one for us to answer
because we don't really have like malls
was now gassy enough we know that
um maybe Earth was because we don't
really know the compound you know the
commentary of involvement was correct or
not that's all kind of best hypothesis
IO out gases pretty heavily but
everybody is way too low to stick around
and it actually flies off into space
same for Pluto Pluto out gases and stuff
actually follows onto the planes of
Mordor uh on on Sharon and it's Moon and
uh yes everything on Mortal um Lord of
the Rings
um which uh we actually went and saw the
the counter for that last night so
if you didn't know uh if you're in the
Cleveland area we're having the
Cleveland orchestras doing the Lord of
the Rings um they play the movie in the
background while they live play the
songs very loudly uh just so you can
still hear the audio and we did that
last night it was actually uh it's a lot
of fun yeah it was great maybe forget
what the rest of that question was
though I think you got it all right the
next Super Chat is from bandersong the
new tech that improves productivity
tends to just create time to produce
more resulting and no true gain to
Leisure what will AI free us up to do uh
more of what we actually would prefer to
do personally I'd say I I I would
dispute the idea that we don't gain
leisure time it's more than no I'm sorry
people tend to walk to whatever degree
they're comfortable with because there's
always more stuff to get done
um I literally phrase everything in my
life as walk because that's what my
brain is and it's because I have the
ward walk in my head as
um
your purpose of your people ducked up in
some way that's just what it is to me
and so that's that's to be walking has
been efficient with time and I can do
that with like Leisure Time too
um I'm going to do this video game say
because this video game I don't complain
as much as I want is good research for
an episode of course we understand the
the you know the space colonization of
slowest battle
um that's kind of a perspective attitude
the idea that we don't get more leisure
time is I'm not sure that's really
correct the idea that I'll ancestors
work from Dust to Dawn also is kind of a
misnumber because they they said I'm
talking to each other the whole time
they were doing that you're like it's
late night I'm spinning the wheel you're
chatting with people you might be
playing games they did have these things
so I I feel like there's kind of a false
dichotomy in that question now
and that's kind of follow-up is the idea
that if you have more and more
automation you eventually end up having
no work to do we're not there yet and
we're not gonna be there any time to
help you soon but that could happen one
day I'm not sure that's a desirable goal
uh and the idea that we want to have
nothing but Leisure Time has never
really struck me as an admirable goal
either but I don't think that's going to
come up because I don't think the
opposite of work is Leisure Time I feel
like there's again there's a false
dichotomy in that
not provided thank you for your Super
Chat says can you discuss the pan
cosmoria hop on pan cosmoria hypothesis
and maybe do an episode on it or if you
aren't familiar would you look it up uh
we're gonna have to look that one up I
know pan suppormy I don't know pan
cosmoya is that maybe like a black hole
follow me of universes concept
there's no further detail so you'll say
yes you can look that way we'll look
that one up Cosmic treason says would
negative Mass have negative extension in
space
would negative Mass have negative what
extension in space uh does it push space
out from it the way that uh Mass
contracts yes the answer is yes you
that's how that warp drive Works your
spanning space
um behind it and Contracting in front
um so yes
all right we have a personal question
from Marcus pasma
is Isaac a member of any veterans
organization such as the American Legion
or VFW yeah I'm a lifetime member of the
VFW Post fought
the Geneva Ohio post I haven't been
there in a few years because we moved to
Plymouth but
um I'm a lifetime member I joined
actually as soon as I got back in the
country from my last post you overseas
to Iraq
um that's the only veteran organization
I'm part of though I'm also an orp
veteran rep for the area too so
thank you for your super chat I have two
questions what happened to Hades nine
and also would it be possible to build a
birch planet around a Kazar
um
but
um I actually just talked to Nick
talmont the other day about that we
hadn't talked to each other in a couple
years we just bumped into showed on
LinkedIn
um it I think that one is prematurely
there at this point he's moved out
another project so it's a lot of his
team came with him to go to other
software projects it is the the Ghana
game that as I think as you said the one
that kind of got away a lot of games
they make a lot of progress and kind of
hit that wall and unfortunately I don't
think that's gonna get resurrected but
it was it was a lot of fun to work on uh
I worked at a few other video games here
and they are in a conceptual role and I
never had as much fun as I did with that
one so maybe it may be another time but
I love that it was a great plot we had
to believe that
um that was the other question was the
about quasars
um would it be possible to build a birch
planet around a quasar yes and in fact
one of the ways that you you power that
Porsche planet is basically by feeding
Mass into it
um to to keep your electric production
going on
um and you have to be very careful
feeding that mass in as dry happy as
possible so you're not doing too much
power production because again a quasar
was very very powerful
um and that was actually kind of how the
the Quasar Cannon Short episode came up
was a friend of mine uh Larry he had uh
he had suggested he'd asked kind of uh
what would happen if a planet fell into
one of these and just the way it got
phased made it back to me because he
asked my wife who said to me uh was well
couldn't you do that as like a weapon
like like you blew it a bullet of a
planet size into a giant black hole and
fire a beam out in front of it and I
thought that's that's that's a quasar
Cannon or and doing the planet specific
version as opposed to a stream the
Quasar canon in my mind is where you
throw a stream of mass into it
constantly for basically a big beam and
the abhof gun as we'll call it is where
you load up planet in front of the
chamber and final that
oh
my we have two follow-up questions from
the maker I'm pretty sure it's the most
destructive weapon ever conceived I
don't know science furthermore would
there be a limit to the size of a black
hole for a birch planet
and such as a black hole the size of a
billion solar masses or 100 billion well
the the the limitation I put on that is
about a trillion solar masses I'd have
to recheck the exact number that's right
around that zone when you're talking to
a wealthy the mass of the Galaxy or
above it and this ignoring frame
dragging which limits you just a little
bit like I think it's about three
quarters of the radius but uh if you
load it all in there you get to a point
where the Event Horizon has a surface
gravity that's that's one gravity and
once you get to that point any most
valuable bigger than that has a little
gravity than that so you either have to
be inside the Event Horizon which is
probably still a bad idea or you need to
have lower gravity to build a bush plant
beyond that and you could check out the
exact number like the the total say on
black hole calculator but it's about a
trillion solar masses in that regions
where you hit that maximum you could go
bigger but uh then you can't have
surface gravity of 1G
you can't have Earthly gravity you have
to go for like motion gravity and you
could have Progressive layers you could
build another layer above that lower
gravity but that bottom layer uh cannot
be above one g once you get about a
trail you know what trillion half
whatever it was
Cosmic treason says in your opinion will
we have one million inhabitants on Mars
before or after we have it in the in the
belt
um
I think you have them on the Belt
beforehand and the question that becomes
what's an inhabitant because technically
nobody inhabits Antarctica but it's a
thousand people so but I'd say that
you're probably gonna get that in the
asteroid belts well well let me phrase
that I think you're gonna get that on
asteroids we kind of have to be careful
because a lot of times we're talking
about how awesome asteroids are we
assume the belt but in reality yet the
Trojans of Jupiter and more importantly
you got all those near-earth asteroids
and they're like 20 or 30 000 of them
and those are the ones you're gonna
settle for us as those possibly except
you like series of Vesta so the
neo-worth asteroids are probably a place
that's going to force get that big space
population
Freedom fiend says thank you for your
super chat I find it rather bothersome
that AI seems to be displacing art
before menial labor that said what's
your opinion on that yeah so the first
job the computer was killed was the job
title computer the Harvard computers
that helped out on a lot of the space
projects all uh interesting area of
History uh they're a great group of
women who just did so much math to help
progress the area but we replaced
computers with uh computers and if you
look so the old asthma Works who
actually afford some people by the title
of computer you know computer Twizzler
from individually but people think of
robots as replacing you know Blue Collar
jobs and they certainly have many cases
but we always have so much more
manufacturing data that we can replace
that uh it's the white collar jobs that
tend to die from that and the creative
class jobs will too in a lot of cases
somebody can write a script pretty
quickly these days I think the scripts
they add to an lnl garbage but uh
a lot of scripts that get put out by
right also garbage too moving on
macroduce with the Super Chat says will
you be playing Star field and should we
expect what we find out there to
actually be out there
um
uh maybe and no I expect the universe is
still trying to be a lot weirder than we
expect it's either gonna be incredibly
mundane or it's going to be something
really weird like you get out there like
well I I we bumped into a television
screen what is this well the universe is
not the least bit like we thought it was
um
you know the universe at the moment
appears to be very mundane and empty but
we should never rule out the possibility
that uh you'd have to get off on like a
simulation hypothesis that we are really
just fundamentally wrong about how
things work I would say always lead that
back door for your Sandy at least in
your head so that if the war does turn
out to be really weird you don't have
your head explode so
and the last question for today is
how are you in general so I think people
would like to know is there anything
else in general sense that you would
like to share with your audience for the
hmm
that's Ah that's a tricky question I'm
doing good I I'm enjoying my role as the
president of National Space Society I
had a great conversation with uh and
Allah tomorrow uh
um from the multi-planatory society the
other day that was a great conversation
I've deemed to talk to all sorts of
wonderful new people I've had an
occasion chat within the recent times
and I'm loving being a father of three
kids and I'm particularly loving being a
husband to a wonderful wife which is
really awesome
um and uh yeah life is good I enjoy it I
need to finish my Greenhouse that's been
like the back project since the wind
blew it down
that's like the big delay there other
than that life's going great yeah and on
that wonderful note we'll see you next
time
thank you for joining us for another
monthly live stream if we missed any of
your questions feel free to put them in
the comments on the episode and we'll
see you on Thursday but if you don't
want to wait you can check out any of
this month's recent episodes or see our
bonus content over on nebula at
go.nebula.tv Isaac Arthur as always
thanks for watching and have a great
week
