[Music]
humanity has come a long way and
overcome many catastrophes and
challenges with science and technology
now is the greatest time in the history
of our civilization but the future will
be even better
welcome to science and futurism with
isakova where we look at how concepts
currently limited to our imaginations
might become tomorrow's reality our
official intelligence megastructures
cybernetics colonizing the galaxy
meeting alien civilizations and more all
of these may come to pass but how we
will show you the mix of engineering
brilliance and brute force that will
make it possible for future humanity
rendered with imaginary but always
scientific grounded discussion and
visualizations new episodes every
Thursday morning subscribe today and
join us in a bright tomorrow
[Music]
