if you choose to fight you may
good afternoon everyone and welcome to
the sfia monthly live stream q a
we'll get started in just a moment but
go ahead and start getting your
questions in the chat window so our
materials can start relaying those
tubing as soon as we start please try to
keep the questions concise and watch
your spelling and try to be polite to
others in the chat we usually go for
about an hour so you probably want to
grab a drink and a snack though we'll
take a break about halfway through too
with all that said welcome and let's get
started
good afternoon everyone and Welcome to
our monthly live stream q a and this is
for the day before Halloween but as you
can see hopefully we are not actually
dressed up for anything just as regular
way in the pie Thai and joined by my
beautiful wife Sarah fella Arthur he was
all coach today and we'll be asking all
of your questions as you get them into
the chat we give a couple that came in
early that we'll go ahead and start with
and we'll get right to them
okay good I was looking at that and I
was like I think it looks like I'm
standing on the side of the wall yeah
every time because we usually the studio
doesn't actually have cameras set up and
we set them up just for this once a
month event it always requires a little
bit of fine tuning so okay is that
better okay thank you I just didn't
think I could ask a question on my side
which might actually be an interesting
question put you upside down on the
screen too
okay so let's start off with a question
here from CR Smith and he says Isaac
Arthur you often talk about light sales
but how can light import impart a force
force equals mass times acceleration and
light is massless so zero anything times
zero is zero so there shouldn't be any
Force please help well there's two
things on this first because people
wonder if this is just a theoretical
thing you can absolutely check if light
will import force on things by sending
it into the back of like a beer for
instance in a vacuum and watching it
spin uh so we have actually checked the
live sale thing out quite well in light
all by itself does indeed experimentally
cause force to be reported so the next
question is what's wrong with that
what's on the equation do photons have
mass and of course we can't rule out
they might have some but everything
seems to indicate that if any at all
it's very very tiny more importantly
this these classic law of physics f
equals m a mass times acceleration how
much force you've got that's dates back
to Newton and it's it's incorrect so the
only kind of sort of incorrect what we
know is that in almost every case we
expand with this stuff we could measure
mass that was a full screen measure uh
it's hard to measure energy we don't
even know what's the time to time but
almost everything that we have that's a
mass-based equation is really and we
call this the rest Mass so as to not
even bother the chroma of relativistic
mass really means the total energy of
the system
so a very hot object would actually be a
little bit uh more for supporter would
hit something that equally masked object
that was cool though for instance
because of thermal energy and photons
are made of nothing but kinetic energy
that is literally all they are we call
it Photon energy but they are nothing
but kinetic energy the motion energy and
that is what's imposing the force but
any energy can cause acceleration you
know times its acceleration is going to
be for the force and it's kind of a hard
way to kind of look at things that way
but this is the real context same uh
just raw energy itself actually has a
gravitational effect not just Mass so
there's still a lot of things were a
little unclear on how that works at the
higher scale things but for the most
part when you see something that has no
Mass that's really its rest mass and has
a kinetic or relativistic energy that's
doing a lot of that work too
okay we've got a lot of energy related
questions today so the next one here is
from Flora horbeck inflation stopped at
10 to the minus 33 seconds strong force
separated at minus 32. is there a
connection here and could this be the
time frame for dark energy to emerge
now I wish that uh inflation started
1083 second I mean all right so context
they'll be assumed to kind of the Big
Bang which kind of move away to the idea
that this was an instant moment and more
sort of a constant expansion thing there
was a period we call inflation where it
was going very quickly compared to what
it was now now this would be a period of
time that was from the size of a grain
of sand to the size of roughly a size of
a your call A plus or minus the order of
magnitude on there and so it's not like
a period that was really very long
lasting it was very short was very
relevant
because we believe that's when all the
uh yeah and isotropy enter the universe
you know have the universe been
perfectly evenly spread we wouldn't have
formation of galaxies and things like
that it had to be little bits of
irregularity these are very tiny ones
they would have been smaller than Adam
then it popped up in terms of the
irregularity but those would have
expanded out to cars that you know the
wider ones later on and so inflation is
very important to the idea about
cosmology as to kind of with dark energy
would have been played then that was
presumably what was causing the
inflation but we had this big problem we
can't see back to that moment in time we
can only see back as far as the surface
of last scattering about 400 000 years
after that moment because that's as far
as photons could actually travel to us
from without being absorbed by the
universe as it was then maybe later on
if we get fiber to find cosmic
background neutrinos we might be able to
actually date back that era but probably
not even then because we probably
wouldn't expect neutrinos to have been
not being absorbed at that point in time
the universe wasn't that dense
presumably so it's very hard to actually
discuss that in terms of specific
cosmology on that one because it is
still strictly theoretical and there was
a lot of disagreement I would recommend
reading uh Sean K horse blog on the
battle because he tends to be not only
just one of the most respected guys on
the topic but also very approachable in
his writings
Miami's last capitalist thank you for
your ten dollar Super Chat you've
convinced me how good beam propulsion is
especially for interplanetary realistic
torch Drive why isn't it more popular in
sci-fi and Space Opera shouldn't it be
and happy Halloween happy Halloween to
you too uh and thank you for the other
sports
um
two things on there because we're
talking about beamed energy a lot of
times on the show when I talk about
beamed energy I'm using we will talk
about laser proportion but a lot of
times I'm using those kind of a blanket
tone for almost any beamed energy and it
is always just necessarily reflecting
out the back of a ship it might be that
it's being uh beamed in to super heat
some gas to far beyond what you could
burn it at temperature wise and that
might be a better thing to do for you
know planetaries have a big reservoir of
like hydrogen gas you superheated with a
microwave beam from elsewhere uh in
which case you're still following the
rocket equation but you're not putting
quite so much stress on your Rockets
um you feel like an ion drive why is
this less popular I think with sci-fi
one it's a little bit more Technical and
two in in science fiction we saw this
tendency to do the you know the spaces
and ocean and uh you know fighter jets
from World War one kind of idea that
they're going to be like close ships
running into each other and then you
know dog fighting Maneuvers and that
doesn't really work with beamed energy
at all
um it's not that you couldn't do that
but you had to break contact around
batteries for a while into your beam
could back back on you and it doesn't
really allow that Independence you're
not really like flying away people know
where you are with something like that
very easily so I don't really think that
people warm up the idea of it for
science fiction as much especially if
you can just choose real technology you
want so you say well we got a fusion
drive or my user advice to folks just go
with we have an engine don't don't give
me details other than how it actually
operates in terms of what it does not in
terms of how it functions saves problems
so we have a Mars question here when I
read Google it says that bamboo could
grow on Mars so why not bombard the
planet with bamboo seedlings it grows
like crazy and won't that create a
breathable atmosphere
um well no for a couple of reasons there
was a first we don't actually know that
would grow on Mars just as is what we
usually have done tests with is to grow
things in samples of motion simulated
soil uh which we have samples of that
soil that we've done with Pros buy them
back to look at and then seeing how
we'll go if we actually gave it say air
in the background too uh so what we'll
go under the dome and after the uh
episode is farming on Mars in a few
weeks we'll go into more detail on this
but after that movie the motion to come
out I'm going to potatoes we had done
some studies on like what kind of plants
could grow there some did better than
others like spinach did very badly
um balladians did okay in a sort of weak
growth way so we don't really want to
imply that you could just drop bamboo by
itself down on this planet where it
still needs natural to grow it still
used the same photosynthetic process
that every other you know organism of
that variety uses
um it's not going to just grow in an
airlift environment and because there's
no liquids in that vanity though and
most these things need water as well but
the other aspect of that is that if you
were to above these things there you
know if you just try to see the Galaxy
by throwing out bits of bamboo seeds or
probably it's Horizon we think it was
Horizon it is a rhizome I believe so
right so bamboo roots or whatever
happened to be in that case then
um and then you know it's going to land
on that planet and it's going to be
landing at that planet five kilometers
per second which you know just context
there means that when it hits the ground
it's probably not gonna be a seating
anything
well you mentioned that uh
you thought spinach didn't grow very
well in the simulated Martian soil I
would have been okay with that up until
we had our bacon oh gosh toasted spinach
and you know then it was like Wow
changed my whole perspective on my
spinach I've always liked spinach as
opposed to just like kind of ice spoke
lettuce but for anyone who remembers
when hellofresh was doing spots there's
still one of our spots of the show
they've sent us these recipes they're
very good recipes that like uh you know
I cook them on air when they send
several of them we took the best takes
but I love cooking and there was always
these new recipes for that and one of
the ones they have there is you start
off with some bacon and you cook that
bacon in the pan and you fix that as
well now I'm gonna have to drain all
this grease on it says no you got like
two three cups of spinach not cups
pounds pounds of space like it's like 16
cups and it just says I'll take it and
put it into the baking crease and cook
it up and put the lid on yeah and let it
simmer I feel like that defeats the
purpose of the healthy quantity that
that spinach was bringing to the table
but it did actually taste good it did
yeah but you could feel the coronary
coronary happening with every mouthful
and I got out of 10 doctors recommend
that but it's only the ones who want to
buy a new Porsche
well that might play into CR Smith's
here question life extension plays a
huge role in many of your videos don't
eat spinach coated and bacon every day
however I was wondering what would the
future look like if there was no magic
live forever button and death still got
us all I mean at that point that's gonna
get you anyway this is a fun you might
as well go out eating bacon
that doesn't necessarily mean you should
rapidly bring that on by giving yourself
a coordinator
um you know we we always kind of play
really we talk about live extension
we're talking about extending life not
in definitely doing so or I should say
indefinitely but in the context of like
you might live A million years I think
after that you have to give everybody a
poachy a human architecture but you
might live A Trillium you're not going
to live to Infinity you know that's how
that works out but um
is it gonna change you what's a change
for us a lot of times on the show I will
very intentionally only have you know
one really different aspect of
civilization kind of in this in the
setting partially because one I don't
want to try to overlap different
concepts and the episodes are meant to
be Standalone so we're like let's go
colonize Pluto we introduced a little
bit of transhumanism in the background
of it but it's supposed to be about
Pluto right uh and then the flip side of
that is I can't actually predict what
the real future will look like and that
involves synthesizing dozens of these
ideas if not more correctly and it's
just the right amounts and you know it's
like here are 60 ingredients including
bacon grease and spinach
you know tell me how this you tell me
what this tastes like I said well how
much of each do I get to use
I I I can't tell you it might be ten to
one or a thousand to one ratios of each
thing with each other okay which ones do
I get to use oh so there are 20 mystery
ingredients that's the future we can
kind of guess certain aspects of it that
way but you can't synthesize it so we
try to do episodes on the basis that
usually we'll talk about live extension
there's a very real option but also
we'll have whole episodes that we don't
talk about it as an option like we
haven't done a specific dedicated
episode to Methuselah ships
um though there are four steps of the
year is going to be back to Interstellar
colonization for a bit but we do talk
about governorships in the context of
people living almost indefinitely
if that doesn't happen though it's just
about your Generation ship scale I don't
really see a future where we don't live
decently longer right where you know the
average person doesn't live to be over
100 because we're currently expecting
that to be the norm come 20 60 or so
without as much scientific increase but
um and that's the society that you
actually have
it's almost easier to predict than the
ones we tend to aim for because yes we
live a little bit longer maybe but we
still have the same normal lifespans and
so your space colonization always has to
be based off the idea that you're not
living indefinitely but that's kind of
our default setting we think about this
stuff anyway so it's more we have to
remind ourselves what future might look
like if people do live to be five or six
hundred
so Albert Jackson says good afternoon
Isaac and Sarah Isaac you came up with
the chandelier cities in Outward Bound
how would they be laid out I thought you
might be able to answer this since you
originally described the concept
um actually no well kind of
um Gregory Benford has them in his
Galactic cenosaka and I had this image
of them being cities that hung down from
space like chandeliers uh and but when I
went back and read it uh you know
afterwards I couldn't find any reference
to that uh just the dimension of
Chandler cities I sent him a message
once asking him I don't know if he'd
ever gone to it or just didn't respond
so I actually don't know if what we had
to colonizing Neptune is you know the
the image that he had in mind we said
chandelier cities but
um
since I don't really know what he had in
mind for that and it is his term
originally I can't say for sure the one
we made for the show is but there we had
the idea that this is something I can
open a ring on an orbital plate where
the city is just hanging down for a
tensile style instead of building up on
compressive strength you build down on
you know suspended suspension or tensile
strength in that regard though it's very
similar it's just that instead of the
ceiling being supported by the floor the
floor is hanging from the ceiling uh
everything else inside it would
otherwise be normal so think of like an
orbital ring hanging 80 meters 80
kilometers above the ground in the
atmosphere still and then it's just
hanging down from it like in high school
and if that was you as an option it
really is the exact same kind of force
concept you have when you're sitting on
the ground and if you're following a
thousand stories either way it's still
going to kill you
that's true and then it looks like a
chandelier because those look awesome
and that's how xiaomi ended up doing the
illustration with that which was amazing
so Fate's end says hi Isaac what are
your thoughts on the realism or perhaps
lack of realism of alien mind tropes in
fiction and how would you do it better
alien mind tropes like am I Andy
mind
in terms of I mean we use a lot of
examples of really just what if we took
this weird culture from the from our own
existence or like uh let's say they are
very like this or That civilization that
previous existed like ancient Egypt from
Stargate was a popular one and then the
Asgard like the north right or we have
this ancient one where they are and the
kids start talking about the idea is
literal Greek gods
um and then you have other ones where
it's like let's take this animal like
the b or The Ant and uh turn them into
an intelligent hive mind
um
but uh
I would say that that's the issue I
usually have with it is they are not
being inventive enough you know Hive
Minds don't really have any reason to
ever get smarter as individuals so you
want to have like you and me as that
your example of what a hive mind is like
is more like um
more like we actually already are to
some degree but it's more like a
networked intelligence you know you're
already all kind of an ecosystem more
than an individual Critter
um but the ones I tend to find most
points where is just
the space house Trope that that one
drives me nuts I hate the space out
um I hate Space Zombies I hate space
vampires and I hate spaces it just gets
to be uh it's it's it's
not interesting it's a Trope so that's
the one I really don't like encountering
an alien civilization that is apparently
perfect and peaceful in every way and
kind of condescend towards humanity is
though is always kind of like uh but
that's about it it's might even be
realistic it's just boring
so from Christian corello thank you for
your Super Chat Christian he says are
you aware of quantum entanglement
experiment that won a Nobel Prize in
physics this year and if so did the
experiment results make Quantum
Communications more less or just as
likely as before uh exactly the same as
before which say I mean well
we should clarify we say I'll have to
say quantum entanglement for
communication isn't any use at all what
I mean by that is faster like Quantum
and segment isn't used all uh Quantum
integument might be an amazing way to do
uh speed of light and 100 encrypted and
unacceptable communication right there's
some options for that that sounds very
interesting but the biggest thing with
Quantum tag Windows spooky action at the
distance and none of this has changed
that I'm aware of and maybe I didn't you
know life has been rather distracting
last couple of months so I might have
missed if there's some major
breakthrough but I'm sure I'd have seen
if it violated any FTL scenarios
um I've been that distracted
but um the basic notion being
if I send a person a letter on the other
side of the planet that says I have sent
two letters out one letters has a green
paper inside and the other has a red
paper inside right
um when I opened that letter I and I see
I got red I know the other one's green
assuming I believe that
um
and that I randomly sent these out is
the other thing right I flipped the coin
or whatever that's how I decided who to
set it to now if I move that to two
other planets even though those planets
are separated by hundreds of millions of
light years even right I opened that
letter up and they're like wow it's red
I instantly know the one millions of
light years away is Green before light
from that thing being open could have
reached me that is spooky action a
distance in terms of sending information
how it actually operates is weird but
the only information actually sends is
Trivial just that piece of knowledge so
you can't really use that to send a
message real time between those two
points and we've tried to think of every
strange way we could they never it
doesn't really work that way so I don't
expect this new experiment of change
that that I'm familiar with and uh
another question on light here from
Andrew Hartley thank you also Andrew for
your super chat if we remain limited to
25 of speed of light while maintaining a
decent level of production how long do
you think that it will take for humans
to settle our entire galaxy if we don't
blow up first
um yeah 25 percent of light speed
um 400 000 USB it it depends on how
you're defining the edge of the Galaxy
and keep in mind that we are not in the
center of it anyway so the fall in tip
and I really don't remember the time I
had the magellanic clouds which we
usually was part of our galaxy these
days
um all on the outside of the Galaxy or
at an angle or for this from us when I
was a kid it was us an Andromeda and the
two magellanic clouds that were nearby
assets kind of separate dwarf galaxies
as astronomy as improved since then we
realized they was tons of dwarf galaxies
inside our galaxy because it's been
eating up galaxies like crazy it's what
it does so I don't know if we even
bother really calling the imaginary
clouds these days like a separate entity
but the Galaxy in that kind of context
goes bigger and there are a lot of stars
between galaxies too I've even heard
estimates to say there'll be more than
between galaxies than they're inside the
galaxies but they'd be weak or demo and
further apart and just in general right
uh things are spread thin out there but
uh in terms of how to colonize the
Galaxy if you win 25 of light speed pick
the most distant object in the Galaxy as
you choose to divide it and multiply by
four
okay Reverend I really would expect it
to move more or less that speed too go
ahead Reverend Darby says much uranium
and thorium heats the Earth and allows
for our liquid core and for our plate
tectonics Mars lacks as much of these
radioactive elements is this a minor
filter or another great filter
um
I mean we first should go ahead and say
the reason why the planet is hot is only
partially because of all the uranium and
stuff that's in there what we have to
keep in mind is that it's hard for
plants to get large objects cool in
space really slowly they're like vacuum
you know bonuses because the only thing
to do is to heat off energy and it will
cool towards the outer edge of course
that and where's the coolers for the
yellow energies it emits even more
slowly most of those plants heat comes
from the place collapsing the fourth
place and I said oh the key to
gravitational collapse surely that's the
cooled by now if you set gasoline on
fire it will release a certain amount of
heat it would still be colder that
individual bits of gases are burning
than the center of the Earth was or that
things would be as they fall down this
planet most the speed of an asteroid
things like that as they accelerate
towards this planet that's what the
central UF has that's what's in there
that's that much heat and yes uranium
and things like that do produce a lot of
heat
and it's not trivial but don't assume
that just because there's not as much
here or not sorry in a place like malls
that's why it's cold it's mostly colder
because it's smaller but it's still we
think it's still a couple thousand
degrees in the center of the Moon
although Toyota kind of put up then I
guess it would depend if you're on
Celsius and Fahrenheit I can't remember
which scale that's on at the moment
definitely difficult to know it could be
a filter right it absolutely could be
I'm sure and I actually would guess that
tectonics is a big one
this is a mouthful for a name Isaac the
web comic creator
on a scale of one to ten how would you
rate Stargate sg1 in term terms of hard
at sci-fi there's SF
um in terms of television shows
specifically science fiction yeah and we
could say in terms of television shows
Sci-Fi TV shows and maybe movies as well
just in terms of those I would give it
809 out of ten
um
it has some mess-ups but like
you go back and watch Doctor Who
especially in the Tom Baker yo they'll
get Newton's Laws wrongly well while
telling you what they are as opposed to
being the oversight
um but there's one episode that it
wouldn't have been Tom bakery or it was
the uh invite between Peter Davidson and
Colin Baker Colin Baker's first episode
is Doctor six they're talking about how
by adding other plants to the uh to the
solar systems area it's going to if they
move these plants close to the sun it's
going to cause all of them to fall into
the Sun and it's like that's not how
gravity works but okay whatever
uh and I would say Doctor Who usually
gets a two or three out of ten because
at least they're making an effort but
they're not you know they all like on a
very soft side of sci-fi uh Star Trek
usually my mind gets rated as six out of
ten because it's the norm but it's on
the high end of the norm it's like the
Norm's settle along with Star Wars so
I'd say like 4 out of 10 Star Wars 6 out
of ten Star Trek because they are the
original two that everyone knows to
compare stuff to and they're both a
median sample uh I would say salgate
probably you know you know a 9 out of
ten in terms of like space-based sci-fi
because they do take some liberties with
physics but not very many and they
usually let people know when they're
doing it they and they also tend to get
the other stuff right here which is what
you do in sci-fi it's your realism on
anything you're actually focusing on
that really is a critical right like um
Peter Watts novel Blindside is very good
for the science in it but he's a marine
biologist when he's talking his area
it's really good but when he deep Dives
anything else it's pretty good too you
know he did his resource he deep dies in
that's what matters but usually wouldn't
say oh I think they got their military
ranks in Sydney or wrong in Stargate
because that's not like a Sci-Fi
accuracy thing but yes that is part of
it too right it's like when people mess
up a fantasy series by having people
having chainmail back in like the Bronze
Age
um but that's usually when I actually
most got stalk it as I mean very weird
for the Air Force recently a corridor a
major and two civilians through as their
gate Personnel they if you have they
actually have Elite troops who all
enlisted who would be that job to go
through you know sergeants and
lieutenants and things like that and
it's not just because of intelligence
and rank it's about we are sending
people through some place into hostile
territory it's nice that they are uh you
know young and mobile and surprise which
is usually soda with being younger
ragging and so forth you know in their
20s so
let's go ahead
Yeager says since there's some evidence
that we accidentally ceded life in
Venus's atmosphere and we know that
bacteria caused the oxygen catastrophe
do you think using micro microbes to
terraform has Merit
um I mean absolutely is an option the
thing is to me microbes anything
involving that is slow like if you look
at the idea of
um trying to repeat something like the
auction Holocaust here on Earth all
models say that to millions of years
like millions and not like small
Millions either like probably hundreds
of millions and
that's really not the tail for me model
we'd like to pursue uh you know you
gotta used to going slow at times like
that but at the same time I'd like to be
on tierform plan in a few thousand years
maybe even a few centuries
and you know our civilization has not
been around that long so I don't want
the idea of community a project that's
going to take us much longer that and
see what's going to happen so the
expectation yeah the other thing is that
by and large
um you know bacteria produce they they
take you know water and oxygen they make
sugars and you got that process going on
they don't make a lot of extra
you know if you want your biomass to
really be filling up on a planet quickly
and look at those atmospheres you need
to engineer a life form that's designed
with that in mind not taking something
from Earth who's who's you know not
designed that mind so you could do the
bacteria route but
not without I mean it would just make
sense to injury other stuff to what you
wanted to do first
due to relativity what a civilization at
the edge of the Galaxy experience more
time and therefore be more advanced
oh um yes they technically this is a
general relativity question they do
technically experience more time out
there uh for a couple reasons one the
gravity is much weaker uh out towards
the edge of the Galaxy than it is here
imagine if you're on a planet though out
there you're still experiencing the same
basic gravity it's like gravity is gonna
We Go the cause is you know where most
of the crap where that is at
very Loosely speaking if you take your
escape velocity from a location out to
the you know empty space or and run that
through special relativity that as a
velocity of ships going that's going to
give you a time dilation and they're
also moving at a solar orbit out there
as on things falling from the galactic
core so both of those combined mean time
runs slower there however even as fast
as that speed is and I want to say it's
like 500 kilometers per second which is
insanely fast though you know look that
up as opposed to taking my word for it
um that does mean that that's still not
really that much of a relativistic scale
I get 10 of I haven't saw you run
through the numbers to get time to slow
down by a factor of 50 you got to be
doing about 80 light speed
and beneath that level it just really
goes down and anything we think of
phenomenal star speed is like 10 that's
where all you're talking about whale
that's still faster than you have for
this time dilation but it's uh fix the
clocks once a day because you lost a
couple seconds maybe over the course of
a lifetime you gained a couple minutes
that kind of thing it's not that much
and so it's not that much for
civilization either
Mr Mark Meadowland says when will we see
the first consumable gold or aluminum
sheet produced on the moon
indistinguishable from Terran products
what will it be and by who for what
purpose you know what I thought of when
I first heard this one
it says consumable remember that cake
that we saw in that British baking show
and they were putting the gold leaf and
the silver on it yeah people curiously
want to ask me what you binge watch as
well to be honest I don't actually watch
that bunch of other science programs and
they wrapped it up
we watch baking shows
we're watching the fifth season of uh
that was the greatest greatest baking
show or something like that the great
the Great British Bake Off or something
like that uh and uh and they're the kids
version which was even cute Junior Baker
a junior back up yeah that was last
week's thing besides what we that in
Jeopardy were they the two highlights
when I got back from camping
but what do you mean about luscious
cakes they were using well they were
using gold leaf on weather cakes or one
of the general ones that Stephen was
using that uh to kind of make the cake
looking better so you can eat gold I'm
going to assume to get back to that
topic
that what he means by consumable is
useful for the purpose of Industry oh
man I liked it on the cake it was really
pretty oh
okay
with the actual questions
under that assumption when will we see
the first consumable gold or aluminum
sheet produced on the moon
for whom by whom and what purpose
um I would give a 50 chance the first
actual industrial production everything
or a test product for that would
probably be SpaceX at this point in time
and then I'd say your next runner-up
after that would be NASA obviously and
which one is it could be either or very
easily on that
um NASA still has way more resources for
getting stuff done than SpaceX does but
they seem to be with your Notions at the
moment and then after that either the
USA or Russia
um and they have the best space programs
at this time and I don't think that's
going to change the next couple of
decades and that's really where that's
going to be at because someone's going
to test you know like um a solo Kiln for
the purpose of making aluminum or I
guess for aluminum remote just PV and uh
the usual process for that but for a lot
of those things that's where that's
going to be tested out to actually
producing it just depends you know it
might be that people say the best way to
fix our problems right now with uh with
you know CO2 is to get up there and put
a bunch of aluminum panels and put them
in orbits you know in which case if we
throw a trillion dollars at we could
make that happen and very quickly
otherwise it might be 20 or 30 years to
do tests and processes
all right we have two more quick
questions before the break all right
um the first one here is from Alexander
patachev thank you for your Super Chat
Alexander happy Halloween is there a way
to suck in time space time and expel it
like what a jet engine does with air
I don't know if it'll be awesome if we
could uh I mean is this is the idea a
little bit kind of cost or what a warp
drive will be doing to some degree is
the idea your country is space-time
ahead of you and and shooting out the
back so that you shrink the distance
ahead of you and move the distance
behind you to expand and that moves your
ship right that's kind of how I should
say that's how some warp drives work the
term is kind of blanket there's a lot of
theories on it if you can crunch
space-time ahead of you and I should say
if you could actually crunch it though I
think what you mean is extracting the
energy out of it and that depending on
which estimate we're going by in terms
of how much energy is latent than they
are you might Crush something smaller
than an atom and have enough energy to
blow up a planet
this there's a little bit of a mismatch
on the models there or you might crunch
the space ahead of you the size of your
ship and have enough energy to push your
ship up to higher speed while having
left a uh a small
I don't want to say tail in space-time
you think if you if you just sucked a
piece of space time right out in front
of you that would somehow damage the
universe but that's exactly the opposite
what talk energy does and that doesn't
really make things get all warped and
weird either so
um
if you could do that that would be the
ultimate power source because then you
could just prevent Dark Energy in some
gigantic you know expanders that just
ate that and gave you energy and
definitely and kept the universe from
expanding away uh but that right now
would be the level of sci-fi though
probably a pretty awesome story so
speaking of sci-fi since Halloween is
tomorrow what is the scariest hard
science fiction you could possibly
imagine
scariest science fiction I'd say
adventure oh hold it's hard sci-fi uh
for software sci-fi although not really
that soft Event Horizon would probably
be it from the uh especially because I
saw that live while I was still in my
teens uh when it first came out that
movie is definitely terrifying and it's
it's almost feels like a a prologue
episode of the Warhammer 40 000 setting
um let's see scariest
not Sunshine because I love the movie
sunshine and it is hard sci-fi it's just
the villain in there the evil
monster-ish guy Heath props blast 30
minutes so unnecessarily spoiling a good
psychological Thriller in my mind but
great movie minus the last 30 minutes
but including the last minute
um but uh scariest hard sci-fi movie
no we happen to think about that too
hard uh scariest hard sci-fi novels
um the Revelation space series by
Alistair Reynolds and Blindside by Peter
Ross those are definitely scary hard
sci-fi if you'll be for some for movies
the ones I just suggested might be good
ones
now it's time for the intermission we'll
see you in a few minutes we'll be on
break for a couple of minutes and it's a
great time to grab a drink and a snack
while we're on break since it is
Halloween weekend I occasionally get
asked which technology or future options
frightens me the most and The Usual
Suspects are runaway AI super wmds like
antimatter or tailored viruses alien
invasions or virtual reality or designer
drugs or an into privacy and so on and
that's a hard question to answer because
almost every pathway can be terrifying
for the purpose of Science Fiction it
just depends on the author of writing
the story and for instance Robert
Matheson's I Am Legend which spawned the
entire zombie apocalypse genre without
actually having zombies in it they were
vampires is obviously a masterpiece of
fiction alternatively Harlan Ellison's I
have no mouth but I must scream
featuring a super AI is utterly
terrifying and one of his best walks but
not really for the computer mind and the
same for Isaac asimov's short story the
last answer not to be confused with this
better known Story the last question
which features a near omnipotent
computer mine keeping a human captive
it's not really about the dangers of
artificial intelligence just being at
the mercy of an unkind entity who can
keep you going eternally like roku's
basilisk and works as well for a fancy
novel or if you replace AI with aliens
indeed we see that with presumed aliens
or some unknown agency in Roger
selassie's short story goes starless in
the night and all three we see the
protagonists figure out a way to score
some sort of Victory and all four of
those authors have some scary writing if
you're looking for Holiday appropriate
reading asthma though is not really
known for being a scary writer and it's
easy to forget that his roughly 500
printed books on a lot of genres and
while he's the grand master of science
fiction he was not even the majority of
his published War talks in his case
though it's a good reminder how often
it's contemplating the setting in
characters in sci-fi that are not meant
to be scary often instead of heroic or
utopian and thinking out from the
perspective of realism that often shows
an unintentional or dark side to such a
civilization as an example it's a fairly
common belief that part of why asthma
resisted adding new novels to his
foundation series was that he thought
he'd written himself into a corner with
new idea or civilizations all of whom
were pretty horrified to contemplate in
terms of telepathic Mastermind
manipulators are under the ability to
predict the future followed up by a hive
mind seeking to dominate the Galaxy and
we get that comparison with Star Trek 2
where the classic Federation seems
weirdly authoritarian in controlling in
some episodes often that's the result of
bad or Hasty writing and we see that a
lot with TV where you often need to put
a couple dozen barely related stories
together with different writers in one
season and keep consistency which was
even harder in pre-internet days and
when most sci-fi had shoestring budgets
which certainly did not include any
detailed effort to monitor their Cannon
needless to say TV adaptations of
various classic fiction can be a bit
horrifying too though for other reasons
there's been some very good and very bad
and awful lot of just so-so adaptations
of books to TV and film over the years
and a lot in the last few but I have
noticed these lower satires on Classics
often do a great job highlighting those
unseen and unintentional horror stories
of Classics often when they didn't mean
to and a quick shout out to Chuck
Sonnenberg of SF debris for so many
enjoyable examples of him doing that
with Star Trek and many other works over
the years great show but as humorous as
those examples can be they actually are
the kind I tend to look for and get
scared by because the road paid with
good intentions is one where it's very
easy to forget to worry about the
destination and if you companions might
be getting pretty morally gray for the
sake of the cause so too an awesome
looking future might hide some
horrifying things and in their realism
they might be worse than any scary tale
even the finest writer might imagine and
on that note happy Halloween and let's
get back to more of your questions
so get started in just a second and say
it comes back but I just noticed one of
the questions on there since I'm
actually looking at the live stream at
the moment someone asked if we moved
away from base 10 as a number system
what base would we move to and that's
actually one of those ones I tend to be
a little bit of a stickler about is I
tend to feel we we shouldn't act as
though we always used a base 10 number
system because we used base 12 a lot
more often which if you're used to
carrying by your knuckles is actually a
much better way than counting on your
fingers so
um if we were going to go away from base
10
I suppose going like binary hexadecimal
I would argue that we will be going away
from base uh five slash 12 at the same
time so 5 times 12 very natural system
there that's 60 seconds 60 Minutes Etc
12 hours a day and divides more evenly
too so if you're going to go to a more
human natural system than base 10 I go
with base 12 if you're just going to go
for something that's more useful
computers binary would be the way to go
or hex decimal
and the next question here is from
ruffle copter Kerman what do you think
about using the oberth effect and solar
moth to decelerate from Interstellar
velocity
I have no idea what solar math is
that's what it says
someone who said that or a quick
explanation of why I don't know that one
um maybe it's like some sort of Decay
we'll come back to that one night yeah
okay uh how about this one if we choose
to uplift animals would we uplift each
individual species or create hybrids
such as a mixture of all great apes a
mix of crows parrots and pigeons a mix
of dolphins and cephalopods yes many
points in between too
um I I I'd be a little afraid you'd
never inventing something looking awful
lot like Cthulhu it was supposed to be
at some point but I mean you uplift the
dolphin or you let's say you go to
uplift an ape fight or chimpanzee do you
say well let's use a kind of a mixture
there because a chimpanze usually not
got the body mass to be able to really
do much in society though they're
devilishly strong for their size
um you know like if ape can you go ahead
and uh give it more of the chimps hands
that might be a little more appropriate
for that
um same I think you'd see a lot of
really heavy Engineering in terms of
those yeah to kind of ask why people are
doing it and uh you know I think I think
jelly speaking in uplifted dog shouldn't
try to be a dog person like a dog human
uh or werewolf you know uh I think that
you'd want to be going for something
that was an intelligent dog which might
not say be human in touch and uplifted
doesn't necessarily mean what Amy for
that because you make something that's
human intelligent it might not be happy
being a pet anymore and then it becomes
competition as opposed to a good friend
you know so I think you'd see a lot of
variation though in terms of hybriding
at both intelligence and the actual
taxonomic aspects
CR Smith thank you for your super chat
we most likely do not live in a galaxy
with a rival kirabi civilization however
what would we see in our night sky and
our astronomy if we lived in a galaxy
with a currently expanding grabby alien
um that's actually a little hard to
visualize because
um they'd be expanding probably as a
rough sphere until they got to the more
point where it was less a sphere than a
kind of a disc but in the night sky
wouldn't really depends on how fast
they're traveling to but it wouldn't
really look like us to be kind of a dot
in the sky that was getting black or but
you still have a lot of individual stars
there that were much closer to us so
like yeah they're expanding a sphere
that way you know a hundred thousand
light years away we start seeing many of
those Stars appearing although we
wouldn't because we'd see them the naked
eye and as they got closer we'd see the
star was disappearing from the side that
slightly expanding blob but also stars
that were much closer and brighter that
were still there uh from an astronomical
standpoint though we'd expect to see uh
Loosely spielco bulge until it became
more dis-shaped as they expanded towards
us in terms of how we plotted out
three-dimensionally
but mostly uh of Darker region of the
sky they still had stars in it and the
brighter stars that were closer be most
prominent
and Joe Cohen says how did you go from
being a marine to doing this I love your
videos and there's nothing else really
like it on YouTube well I didn't go from
being a marine so
I was in the United States Army for
seven years and change and um I I think
that's on behalf of all Marines and army
I'd say we wouldn't want to mix those
two up
I did actually get to work with uh with
submarine platoon a lot while I was
deployed to Iraq and they were great
folks to work with on most things
um but uh stereotypes and service was
not behind
um I uh my father was in the Army I had
one uncle in the Army and another in the
uh the the Navy is a CB uh for Nam and I
actually have some cousins in the Air
Force and Army and guard as well and
when I was 19 uh I went an internship
with the United States Air Force at
right past Air Force Base uh Institute
technology there in Dayton Ohio and I
got
uh fond of of just kind of the the folks
there a lot um and maybe think about
joining the military but I didn't want
to join the Air Force specifically I
have my patrol boots on the ground kind
of person and the Army was more
appealing so
um so I was in the Army for four years
of active and then I came back and did
uh three in resolve afterwards while I
was getting a little bit back into
civilization
um and one deployment for 14 months uh
to you Iraq
um let's see in terms of how do I go
from here to there
when I was done with my internship I
came back and started grad school up uh
and then so the internship was 2000 and
I joined the army about 2003 when I left
grad school so I've been an undergrad in
physics at Kent State University did an
internship at Wright-Patterson with the
Air Force and then came back and did
grad school uh at Kent State University
again for for two years and change and
then I went off and joined the army as
enlisted and then came out and got out
of it uh and I didn't want to go back to
college didn't want to do a whole career
in the military and but I missed the
geekiness aspect of of physics so I
started hanging out with various sci-fi
forums uh talking to a lot of the
authors about how to make their science
well you know their sci-fi more
realistic and I ended up doing a video
on it and I ended up doing an episode
kind of following up on that and I went
up on that and then like a year later it
had become almost weekly Hobby and
sometime after that they talked me into
accepting donations and sponsors it
became a it became a profession I guess
at that point so here we are sometime
after eight years was that happening and
it's still I'm still loving it it's
great so that's the loose pathway on
that one though
meletti class said thank you for your
Super Chat he says hey Isaac Arthur I
got introduced to you through a close
friend of mine and I've been a fan ever
since what a great friend
go ahead
all friends that make introductions are
great friends right at least what are
your thoughts on speculative Evolution
spec Advil for short
um
limited because I'm not positive that I
actually know what the context of that
word is
um I'm thinking you're meaning the idea
of striking out what evolutionary paths
different words might take or which
reactions that humans might take if it's
a ladder I think those are fun ideas to
have but also very hard to really follow
up on like what will humans look like in
another million years kind of has me
taking the context of Are We including
technology or natural environment for us
to mutate in and uh obviously in
technological environment you really
don't know what we look like but I love
to kind of speculate on how new Awards
would have Evolution like would life be
like on a lower gravity Ward but it is
pretty speculative at this stage yes I
didn't answer your question I'm sorry we
got a little clarification on the solar
moth a solar moth is a light pumped
rocket that uses parabolic reflectors to
heat the reaction Mass okay so the
question originally was what do you
think about using the oberth effect and
solar moth to decelerate from
Interstellar velocity yeah I think that
could walk out and that's a cool name
for that I'm surprised I've never heard
that one before but uh so the idea they
are
um would that work for another solar
system always the problem with all these
things is is how much speed you can take
off and and how big are your sales one
of the reasons why we talk about you
using like I have a fleet coming in and
they decelerate a little bit by pushing
from them a slight sale and you know one
of the ones they had that they
accelerated on they pushed out in front
and they use a beam pushing off of that
to push that in One Direction and they
slow down a little bit in the process of
doing that as it goes in that solar
system it slows down a bit from the
sunlight pressure but it's a very thin
one and then he can send a beam out of
all their lives resolving to push back
on the flea a little bit and slow it
down or another one after that that's
another meal they're doing the same
thing with in a chain into a slows the
whole Fleet down in that way hoping to
slow the thing down from speed at that
point because it isn't past because
you're using a very heavy amount of
energy from that star to slow the fleet
directly I think you could get away
pulling off you know genuinely
relativistic speeds I think otherwise
though I don't think very many tricks
like that would like to do more than a
few percent of light speed at the most
it's very hard to to use something like
the or both effect to really slow ship
down compared to the speed of the
objects and you're interacting with
and another Super Chat from Christian
corello thank you Christian could a
civilization avoid detection by always
being on the Move via Stellar engine and
how would orbiting planets avoid
incineration by said engine
I mean
the biggest problem you have with an
engine if you're trying to go for
secrecy is that if you can move your
relativistic speeds it makes something
like the space shuttle look tiny and you
could spot the space shuttle
telescopically on a different planet in
your own source very easily uh while it
has engines on
um I don't think that's spaceships are a
great way to stay stealthy while they
actually got their engines running on
the other hand if you can do most of
your main board while you probably be in
the shadow or something more or less
like a star as you're trying to get away
from the solar system then others might
not see you doing it you know and you
just drip to that point and use it to
give you a few tweaks of location here
and there very low power
um
but as to a spaceship engines what was
the second half the spaceship in
civilian the planet right whether or not
so the planets would avoid being
incinerated by the engine
I mean quite the engine I mean well
to be fair like kind of like something
like a black hole drive on the back of a
bigger ton ship if you were just to like
run that 1G while you hung above the
planet you'd be like peeling that
planet's biosphere off like an apple
that's how powerful this kind of engines
would be but at the same time
um generally speaking you're not going
to really incinerate a planet with a
rocket injury unless you're perpetually
firing it for days and days and days in
a row at you know the kind of ships you
know shippings do you need to move
something like a heavy asteroid at least
so it's not not really that powerful
usually
so here's one that
would probably be really fun to hear
what our future kids would think about
it says how could you create a tree or a
bush that grew a strange food such as an
ice cream tree a bacon tree a potato
chip Bush or what kind of food would you
choose so I go to what ice cream tree
give me that that one
if you could create a tree or a bush
that grew a strange food what would you
pick ice cream tree bacon tree potato
chip Bush what kind of food would it be
yeah
uh for people who are big fancy The
Simpsons of Family Guy that immediately
brings to mind this this one episode
where the professors got the um
the cow that's got the like the coat and
the scarf on and then they're making ice
cream by just smoking a cow and then of
course in uh in Family Guy like don't
play by the candy tree it eats children
it's like that would make some sense you
know why would you grow candy and allow
a little children and eat them so I
guess we'll context on that one oh I uh
before anyone running with the reference
on that is Sarah and I are fossil plants
are getting ready to uh adopt some kids
so we can't have they actually have them
on camera not physically here at the
moment so that was one of the many
hectic things I was referencing earlier
so we're getting three of them I can't
put their names out live but if they are
watching which they might be hello we
can't wait to see you again on Wednesday
I hope you're enjoying this show which
to be fair probably doesn't make a lot
of sense and if you are watching it we
want to see on Wednesday what kind of uh
tree you would want yes what kind of
crazy tree that makes food you would
want I think a potato chip tree might be
interesting about a Macaroni Bush a
macaroni Bush chicken nugget tree there
you go there we go
that's a pizza tree it's not enough so I
suppose it would have to be something
that didn't really cook food so probably
not meat I think there was an episode
right about the bacon tree though wasn't
it it was I think so from the episode
bacon trees
so uh if warp drive is achievable what
would a spaceship traveling via warp
drive theoretically look like to an
observing telescope if detectable at all
um well it's going towards you uh well
if it's going faster in life you're
going to faster alive they're first
going to see it when it appears parked
in orbit around you right or whatever it
does to decelerate
um and as it's coming towards you can
see a very very blue shifted high energy
object as it's decelerating uh from the
back side
um
I'm trying to think of what that would
actually look like in terms of Shifting
away uh it's gonna ever further from you
and it is going faster than light but at
the same time the light that's leaving
it oh yeah this depends on how it's
going faster in light because if the
photons were moving away from you
effectively because it was coming out of
the back of the ship slowed the light
speed you never see it when it's turned
the engine out and be a big black object
but from a realistic perspective they
would probably just come in out of it at
the same speed as though they'll be in
emitterdale like a warp drive ship uh
might not have that shift thing at all
um but you just have delays or flickers
as it was coming towards you or kind of
a stretchy thing
um it's so it spent so much on what's
actually letting you uh break reality
unfortunately so what does this
impossible thing look like I'm afraid I
can't give you a good answer on that
today
okay so we have a question here from
Jacob love leventus Adam something has a
depressing video why a Mars colony is a
stupid and dangerous idea how sanguine
are you we are overcoming challenges and
radiation tolerance and terraforming
over the near term
you know I
I really don't like when we uh
I really like when folks the context on
some of that is like well why would this
be a really horrible idea I haven't seen
that video uh in fact I'm not sure if
I've seen that channel so I don't know
the context of how they were saying that
I don't want to take them out of context
but
um can we actually tell four miles at
some point in time
sure I still as you guys know I I prefer
these space habitats approach where you
mine planets and use them to build
places you want to live uh as opposed to
just trying to join some alien
environment into something that you can
very easily and comfortably live in
um at the same time do I think that Mars
is the best place to be doing that ad
uh Venus might actually turn out to be
easier in a terraform but we could
actually live our models I mean using
current technology we could live on
models could we Prosper uh maybe not
could we potentially avoid getting the
number of illnesses that might be
Associated low gravity or getting
radiation soaked if you went outside and
get a little bit harder but the tech is
there uh doing it economically do we get
at a cost breaking level probably not
you know you're looking at could we keep
Connie going there if we demand there'll
be a trillion dollars into a EO yes
absolutely uh
but is it a great idea I really believe
that any manned mission tomorrow should
be waiting until you've had a permanent
base on the moon for at least a decade
so we're trying to decipher that last
Super Chat question that just came in
and a couple of other questions here but
uh someone wants to know
if you would rather live on a planet
populated by civilization of vampires or
by a civilization of werewolves
vampires or werewolves I know quite the
choice there
um which would you prefer
a civilization populated by vampires
am I one of them I guess the question
there is it's uh
if so you want to be whichever one you
are you're more likely to survive I know
there was a movie I haven't actually
seen it yet but basically it's a
civilization that keeps humans on on uh
you know uh virtual reality where they
suck blood out of the four vampire
population but
um I don't know I I
feel like werewolves don't actually have
to eat people to live and therefore that
would I feel a little bit less ethically
challenged about that but if I go crazy
and bazook and kill people all the time
um
dude that might be a fun trip for
virtual reality but now if that's
something I want to live on the planet
where people were doing that all the
time
um
I guess again the context is am I one of
the werewolves or vampires and given how
that usually works out the answer is
probably you know you're very not long
living on that planet or you end up as
one of them so
um I would say that I
tend to find both a little bit
oversaturated in fiction these days so
no I don't want my choice some other
mythical monster instead please
and the last question for today is a
super chat from Ashish Anand and he is
from India thank you for your Super Chat
Ashish hi Arthur greetings from India
wanted to know cyclical conformal
cosmology is it really true isn't it a
paradox who or what started this cyclic
process
um Can formal cyclic cosmology
yes although the words are in the other
okay uh I mean it could be either
conform more cyclic cosmology that's a
blanket area I know that Penrose has a
very specific version of that that's
that comes up um that I maybe misquoting
but uh usually it's just the idea that
you have a universe that
um
I I want to make sure I'm not going with
the wrong cyclic version sometimes it's
the universe expands and then contracts
and and and and starts back over that
would not be it that's the classic one
we have from back we thought the
universe would just expand contract
because over and over again
um I don't remember this way in which
this one does that
we addressed the notion in our big rip
episode two for the idea that the
Universe might expand infinitely and
then each new Big Bang is coming from
you know a space the size of an atom
that's expanding to a whole new universe
which then avoids the Fermi Paradox
situation that's the only cyclic
cosmology thing I can think of that
really avoids the formula Paradox
um and that is one of the big ones on
any cyclic ones because we have no
evidence one way or another on them if
they work out theoretically that's great
but you gotta be able to test it if they
walk theoretically though the big
follow-up question is always how does it
avoid the Fermi Paradox why can't people
find some way to survive into the next
incarnation of the universe and again we
we discuss one that does work in in the
big rib episode even though I think the
Big Rip is itself people to put Theory
at this point in time
and I think that's going to be our last
question for today so oh you know what's
because it's Halloween it was only after
parties usually with this big backlog I
have to do a lighten you out so uh any
other cool stuff going on today I think
we're pretty much set to go so we are
going to go ahead and tune out we will
see everybody on Thursday for
uh either damage spaceships or we
fueling the sun I forgot which weekend
is oh my goodness it's been a crazy week
it's been a busy time wish us luck we'll
see you next week
so that will wrap us up for the day I
want to thank everyone for joining us
and again if we didn't get you a
question feel free to post us a comment
below and I'll try to get to it this
evening
also you can continue the conversation
at any of the forums on Facebook Reddit
Discord or our website isaacartho.net
thanks for joining us and we'll see you
Thursday
