one of the more interesting hobbies
people might take up in the future if we
get some types of space infrastructure
like orbital Rings is jumping off them
from space into the ocean or ground 100
Mi below this is more than three times
higher than the current record and
involves falling through a region where
there's little atmosphere to slow you
down but unlike an orbiting spacecraft
you would begin relatively stationary in
the absence of an atmosphere you
accelerate quite quickly and will only
take about 3 minutes to hit the ground
and your top speed of over a mile a
second but as the atmosphere thickens
you will hit your smaller maximum speed
relatively quickly and then begin
decelerating even before you deploy your
parachute as your terminal velocity is
based off the density of the air around
you which is rising as you fall as the
existence of an overal ring implies
cheap travel to that altitude the
expensive part of this future hobby
would be the spacit and parachute
