let's do a quick sound check
can you be human yet okay welcome and
we're doing our monthly live stream here
at SF ia and for those of you who are
not familiar with this process we'll be
taking questions pretty much the whole
time but while those get queued up we do
have a couple of announcements for today
forced we will be doing a second session
afterwards you know discord so of all
right after this with live voice chat so
if you don't get a question today you
can go over there and wing one out and
we hit the break about 30 minutes in at
Sindri we'll walk you through how he
will go about doing that if you're not
familiar with discord second we do have
a website up now that the new and
improved one we mean do upgrades for
quite a while that is ISO golfo net and
you can check that out doing the break
as we'll start up at 6:30 it's 5 o'clock
right now
and the discord session Atlas and will
probably finish up here about 6 o'clock
so in the break you can head over there
and take a peek and we'll give you some
instructions about that when we get
started so for those of you who are not
keeping track of the schedule while we
wait for questions to come in we do have
next week secret aliens is all episode
to finish out February and then we'll be
going in with mulch for hitchhiking in
the galaxy which is pretty obviously a
tribute to Douglas Adams though that
will be our entire month as you really
can't just do one book for him so
alright so do we have any questions up
yet
by the way for anybody's not familiar
with this we actually have some
volunteers who moderate on the side and
grab questions out of feed because I
can't really monitor both at the same
time so so you know I do actually read
all the questions and comments after the
live stream but while we're going
through this they snatch out questions
as we go post them over to me on our
discourse over actually and I just read
those off as we go
mmm force question did you lose like 50
pounds yeah I guess I have actually lost
a fair amount of weight since we got
start with the channel it's about 80
actually but still about 40 more to go
to be honest next question it's always a
bit slowly it started here so I like
that
I can pick up the question aha there we
go can you comment on the recent study
showing that the universe is likely to
end in a big rip no black hole forming
worst news ever
that is one of the cosmologies that we
might actually have as a fate of the
universe there are several that we
kicked around over the years and of
course we can't say like now which of
these is true for the longest time we
had a steady state universe which was
the notion that the universe just
refresh itself over and over again then
we found about the expansion of the
Hubble expansion we started kicking
around the idea they would just spread
out and might eventually contract under
gravity and that would be called the Big
Crunch there's a version of that would
then explode again is another Big Bang
not there was very much explosion going
on and that's this cyclical universe
approach then we have the heat death
which is the means may want to line now
which is that the universe will just
spread out for everyone ever get thinner
and thinner and entropy will eventually
rule over thing when you see to a very
cold and lonely place then we have the
big rip this one is new or with dark
energy coming into play there's the
possibility that this accelerating
expansion which is what appears to be
going on
we'll just keep speeding up and if it
keeps being up enough you would
eventually get a dark energy force that
wasn't just enough to pour galaxies
apart but could pour solar systems part
and then planets support from their
solar systems and then would potentially
actually to the point where it could rip
apart atoms where would overcome the
electromagnetic force which is you know
about 40 orders of magnitude strong
within gravity and then might actually
pull apart atoms to that cans to be a
little bit tricky with the with the
nuclear force though because when you
rip to course apart you end up with two
more pairs of quarks
so something like that could conceivably
result in a new Big Bang simultaneously
every way on the universe oh it could
just be that everything gets ripped
apart into the universe the big
difference here though is that while
they through the number twenty billion
around a lot for the big rip that's
actually just a rounded number they put
into the equation yeah I think was
negative one point five for the
academics no mayo or an italicized W the
factor later though they just plug
didn't even number there that was you
know zone they'll curious about and that
came out to twenty billion years there's
no data for it to be negative one point
five and any value in they go the closer
it is to one negative one the log or the
universe would live so if it was like
negative no one's negative one other die
you would actually have a frozen
universe at some point in time we would
just keep death anything lower than that
is gonna produce for you assume you I'm
remembering my numbers right a eventual
big rip and that could be twenty million
years from now like if the factor was
one five or it could be sooner or a lot
longer way so the twenty billion number
you care about this is just all betray
for the mathematical model all right
next question actually quite a few while
I was talking about that one second what
effect would seed factories have on
socio-economic systems of Earth I'm
assuming by see factories you would mean
probably self-replicating ones we have a
pretty big effect you know right now we
have these very complex supply chains in
fact that somebody will be discussing
with the giant robots and power suits
episode and all the April a lot of our
gear a lot of all equipment is kind of
based and limited off of the sheer
amount of effort that goes into making
them so you've an opportunity cost you
when you want to make something really
cool and can do it you're asking to do
some of your lots and simple but when
that opportunity costs that's lost by
making something more complex is very
minimal is it's basically just program
it in and the machines do all the walk
then you can actually stalking allow the
big old mega structures or colony
systems that we often talk about here
and there does tend to be an implicit
assumption that's
where the changer was at where the
majority effort is not manufacturing in
terms of human effort but rather on the
design side Peter asks what would you
suggest regarding promoting basic one√∂
Sonos as a better alternative to Pepsi
cans Space Station's
fundamentally in Anya Sonu is still one
of those big soda cans Space Station's
I would say the idea that you might do a
really small one with this is all
depending on how big we're talking about
small bean into you up to about 100
meters or so you know radius for these
things it's not terribly comfortable to
live inside as you'd have kind of a spin
naja effect that you might get over just
naturally after a couple of days or you
might need to take some sort of motion
sickness pill for where exactly that
really says how to say but when you say
once you get to be about half a
kilometer in diameter that should be
gone there should be no problems at all
that's pretty big space station though
even if it's basically a wheel rather
than a can and since the interior would
be mostly a or their puppet isn't met up
it is a wheel or can in terms of mass to
construct the thing so I don't think
it'd be all that hard to talk people
into building something that big if
there was a demand for it but that's not
your fourth step your fourth step is to
build one as small as you can that will
actually let you simulate something like
motion or lunar gravity you get a long
term effect in terms of health and
probably motion gravity because that's
hold on you then lunar gravity but the
moon is right there so we can get people
back and forth maybe on a couple of days
and we can talk to them instantly so
with a two-second time lag at least so
we probably don't need to simulate lunar
gravity we could just put people there
and bring them back there's a problem
Mar was another story you need to
simulate after you send people off I
mean we could send people obviously and
just find out the hard way but you know
that's a multi-year journey at low
gravity on the surface of all is so
there's bad health effects on that
you've got a lot of dead here oh it's
not good for a space program you know
men it's bad science bad process to just
send people out like that
next question Christopher asks will
nuclear fusion always be 20 years away
you know this comes up a lot because it
probably is
20 or 30 years away right now and I'll
go ahead and say that right now is a
fixed number somewhere in the next few
decades we should probably have a
walking reactor maybe not a commercial
one this kind of comes back to General
Atomics discussing fusion back in the
50s when we found out how to do fission
we haven't do basic fission what a
fission was we developed the bomb and
you know reactor inside a generation of
them so when we had the h-bomb walking
and basic concept of fusion walks a lot
of the companies that were doing that
like General Atomics and said you know
this is what we're gonna happen in 20
years it seemed pretty reasonable a lot
of our discovery is like if light from
the right but there's only a generation
or so after the Wright brothers that we
started having commercial travel on
airplanes so there was a habit of saying
that and that wasn't a bad guess on
their part but after that we just gonna
have this long sequence of people saying
it's gonna be another generation or two
away when that didn't quite happen so
this idea that's always been twenty
years away that's actually a fairly new
thing just from the repetition of it
we've only been a few generations since
we discovered it we're hoping to have it
faster didn't quite work out that way
but this defeatist it's always gonna be
20 years thing it's just whew rage boo
ass at our current technological level
what you believe the most plausible
method of immortality is I always like
to discuss the option using
nanotechnology to repay our cells and
DNA because it will absolutely walk if
you have those machines once you can get
in there and actually repair things it's
much like repairing the house you know
that's going to walk if those can invent
to the next 20 or 30 years then that's
how it would happen if we don't find a
better method and it takes us a century
to get to those robots then that's how
that will happen still just much longer
way however for the most part aging is
just various degenerative processes
that's all very separate from each other
and allow them all fixable by themselves
like cancel that really is part of what
we mean by aging the mitochondrial DNA
breaking down from exposure oh that's
something that could be fixed with a you
know retrovirus potentially
so these are individually fixable issues
that might be much better fix through
classic medicine and biology as we get
better with that but the nanotechnology
apps option is always on the radar if
those don't turn out to be viable and of
course it's possible that we can make
really tiny machines that can do this
except that we already have tiny
machines in nature that can do this
stuff they just don't do it cuz they're
not programmed to do so and they don't
know to do so so you know we say with
honestly total confidence that there
will be a day when we can make machines
small enough to walk on cells and to be
able to do a payos that might be quite a
long time off it might be you know 10
years from now we just don't know when
someone makes some of these machines
that we the you know the avalanche point
to when that should happen
Olympus asks if the technology ever
became available would you upload your
brain um I would copy my brain probably
if it was a relatively simple and
process that others have been through I
have no real interest in uploading my
brain to transform my life to a computer
per se it would be better than dying or
being erased as far as I would be
consoling though if and then this is one
of the things you really can't give a
definitive answer to it's not for the
realm of science small philosophy if I
upload my brain there's a copy of me
shooting me in the head does not mean
that that is the original now it's not
really a fake it's just a copy I'm still
here if I die the next day I'm dead my
copy lives on and my copy being more or
less me you can go ahead and you know
make sure my friends are taking care of
attend their weddings or funerals - it
can make sure the video is keep coming
out there is an Isaac stormy hiatus just
doesn't happen to me me specifically and
so for that reason I'm not really all
that anxious to get into mind uploading
but I saw they would get a copy my plane
made if that was a relatively simplistic
and cheap process because I would like
to make sure somebody am you remain to
take care of things afterwards
Timothy wide-ass do you foresee
interplanetary laser highways or all
these was more useful for interstellar
travel
they're very useful for interstellar
travel I'm still not certain about their
application for interplanetary travel
just because the speeds and well for
interplanetary travel if you have a
working fusion drive or even all
comfortable using fission sources don't
really necessitate using that and
whenever you're using a system like that
you are kind of cutting down on on how
how self-dependent you are you've got
something else there's to push you you
must got very large lasers lying around
that people might be uncomfortable with
being moved back and forth amount of
solar system what you might end up with
though is ships that have their own
drives that could get them up or down
from speeds and then they were
supplemented by this kind of like uh you
know those little conveyor belts they
have in a lot of larger facilities like
airports so you can walk along next to
it or you can get up on that and walk to
or stand still most of us get on those
and walk mining me I must skip around
them and just walk on us just stand on
those so you might have lasers going
between major ports of call that you
could jump onto you for an extra speed
boost or to save you time and money but
I don't think that would be the primary
way people got around alright tower city
ass is it possible to have underground
biosphere on earth like in the underdog
from Forgotten Realms Semyon dozen
dragons I think we're just an episode on
that the subterranean civilizations
episode it wouldn't be quite like those
I know how many of you are actually
familiar with underdog settings from
place like Forgotten Realms or gray hawk
but generally speaking you couldn't
actually have a really vibrant biosphere
underground
unless you're supplying a lot of energy
to it but you can't have one we already
do a lot of those caves all amazing
places and then you have life inside
them but it does tend to be a a debris
based life same as with the deep ocean
and you do also have problems of you
know what's happening if you live ten
kilometers underground the air pressure
it's gonna be fairly high so see the
subterranean civilizations episode for
more details on that but I think that we
will probably have something that set up
in the future to some degree at least
Winston Ashley asks do you think that
capitalism will have a place in space if
not what economic system do you think
will prevail it's kind of my state an
opinion that Mikasa whatever my own
views are on this that you can pretty
much make any economic system semi
viable in a post-scarcity civilization
just because you don't have to be hyper
efficient to make something like that
walk as to whether or not Kepler's might
have a role in space in the future I
should think so it's it's one the major
ways we drive it now but during the
space race you know people say it has to
be a capitalist or communist future on
in you know in space the space race
between a democratic capitalist nation
and an old agafia communist nation and
they both mash develop space travel so
it doesn't really work as an exclusivity
example because it clearly did walk for
both of those groups they both made
major advances in space travel and I
would not see any particular reason why
that would be limited to one
socio-economic system which one will go
with I don't know that which one's metal
I don't know or at least I'm not going
to express an opinion on Gary Lane ass
Isaac love your channel do you think
robot replicators should all be
identical for simple replication or
should there be a different model
specializing in different things thank
you Gary
the idea of a universe so simple is
probably a little bit simplistic you you
don't see that inside us we see very
specialized to small machines doing the
walk and I think that you would almost
always go this specialization route when
you have a complex system that you're
walking on there's a lot of variables
involved anything that's complicated
where you're just gonna be better off
specializing so I think that you would
be more likely to have an entire
ecosystem of nano robots possibly with
larger scale controllers that gave them
their orders but you know I just don't
see much of a reason to make it uniform
you know it's it's not an ant colony so
and that's probably not the best model
to be using for these kind of things you
can walk that way of course but I think
you would specialize with me different
breeds and types of these machines
although I think you might be careful
not to let them evolve on their own much
that's how you get gray goo Derek asked
question si Michael Nelson ass estimate
how long until significant programs of
asteroid habitats building projects of
car 20 years it's always such a number
of the people I throw out there somebody
that's a generation away
well Minas when we say things like that
it doesn't mean it's nothing gonna
happen in 20 years it means that we
can't see it happy in the next decade or
so but we can see a pathway to what
happening not long after that we could
launch a mission to an asteroid by now
and mine it will you have the technology
for this and if we knew there was much a
gold day or we could pick it up and
bring it home that's a really risky
venture but it's still you know go
basically lacking a sort of
infrastructure in space right now I
don't want people sealing off hundreds
of millions of miles from Earth on
manned missions to go grab resources
until I'm sure we have a good chance of
helping them if something goes wrong if
they want to risk the endeavor on their
own that's fine but that would be a
strictly private venture at that point
in time and I would think that would
tend to lag behind anything that require
basically entire resource of a country
to put together so at least 20 years
before he was really mining asteroids
and I would you just say another
generation after that for yet areal
habitat so an economy possibly long ago
but we do have the analogy for you know
San Francisco 1849 the gold rush it's
very one for asteroids difference being
they are a person could theoretically
walk or see a relatively cheap ship with
a small resource behind it to that
location
quite a long trip around the continents
at that time of course but it's a little
bit harder to do this I don't know we
could just assume there would be a rush
that would take place in a couple of
years maybe follow down the road but not
yet
minnie ass favorite sagan phiman book
three books the lectures on physics by
fine and i would say it was probably my
favorite cuz it was my graduation gift
from my department was uh when I was
graduating I'm with my undergrad degree
they I came in top in the class and they
always give a something some kind of
gift and mine was the Fineman lectures
and he's actually people kind of want to
be your main inspirations all role
models Richard Fineman and Ben Franklin
all my two big ones I probably should be
asked more Einstein or Newton because
they're my namesakes but 5 min and
Franklin rain pay organize with SpaceX
almost kind of moving towards the future
of new combinations of chemical chemical
propulsion any plans to take a more
intense look at the pros and cons of
different chemical propulsion
combinations I don't think that we're
gonna see any that really outperforms
hydrogen and the reason why we don't use
hydrogen exclusively right now with
propulsion although there is a
difference between taking off at ground
level at sea level and walking in the
upper atmosphere or space a hydrogen
pretty much always was gonna win that
and smaller storage and and motion issue
this difficulty is moving hydrogen
around but I would tend to think that we
would for chemical fuels kind of
converge towards using hydrogen as we
get better with containing and
transporting and utilizing that so there
could be other options we might look at
them but I just tend to think it's gonna
be hydrogen hopefully metallic hydrogen
but probably hydrogen lab would ask what
is your favorite alternative to dark
matter I think would be more like what
would be my favorite version of Dark
Matter I tend to subscribe to the wimps
that's we can interacting massive
particles something like a neutrino but
big or as to oltona so that I don't
really have one there's there's nothing
in the evidence right now that would
support a specific alternative to dark
matter
micro black holes would be for instance
be still a type of dark matter and we
can say like what sort of level of
energy they were tend to have the
problem is that unless they were created
a very discrete mass because black was
have a lifetime that is very correlated
to their mass when a black hole dies
assuming Hakeem's Rayleigh Hawking
radiation is correct it should give off
an awful
anoche that we should be able to see so
there should be if they were randomly
distributed mass of the creation of
universe and it's the notion of
primordial that black hole is once far
more less massive than what we see
formed by stones dying if there was a
whole bunch of black holes created at
the beginning of the universe of various
masses unless those were at very
discrete mass levels you know if they
were evenly spread as a war those should
be expiring all the time and we see the
background rate background radiation
from that should be fairly collectible
so in this case Malati's dark matter
ideas many of them are kind of ruled out
by they're just not really being much
evidence to support the concept but I'll
Turner's don't matter entirely
like modified Newtonian dynamics model
fide Newtonian dynamics for gravity that
it gets a week or at the intergalactic
level these you know that that one for
instance struck down by the bullet
cluster I back in 2006 and that's case
for lobbies all toys dog never to with
the intern interesting ideas but they
have to be testable and falsifiable and
while talk matter hasn't been falsified
yet it is falsifying what we've
discussed ways that we could potentially
find the stuff and test it so many of
the alternative theories don't you have
that going for them and they all kind of
cherry-picking or fitting into the data
which is not always sometimes a
necessary approach but not a good way to
do science we can avoid it
taco asks or what kind of organization
do you believe will construct the forced
interstellar colonization vessel I would
tend to assume something that was equal
to a nation in terms of resources
obviously cuz that's a pretty big
project especially considering that the
for way to do that would be something
like a lease or sale or at least get it
up to speed or you might slow it down
with nukes but you might as well push it
out of the system that way let's code to
say I it's got to be a big group that's
not only something you're gonna
privately fund forced but it could be
you know in a group of Nations a very
large corporation is specialized in it
or an individual country if that's
necessary yeah huge huge expenditure
next question what is your opinion on
the Gateway foundation's plan for a
large spinning station none I remain
fond of it I don't know when something
like that could actually be put out
practically it
quite an devil and you need a solid
business model for attempting that if
you want to do it privately but I'm glad
to see people actually just working on
it you know we've worked for them in the
past and I really like their basic
concept its practicality economically
something else somebody else would have
to discuss I'm not an economist but I'd
like the idea Nasmith asked do you
reckon all generations will live long
enough until some form of function do
you is that do you think do you think
our generation will there long enough
until someone forms functional
immortality to say all those was live
right now could we potentially you know
live forever a very extent period of
time of course you could never really
have immortality I do think it's on the
table whether or not it will happen I
usually read it as less likely than not
for people my age just because I don't
like to get my spirits up or something
like that we all know something like
that's coming before it actually happens
the I was joking and all April episode I
know that a couple weeks ago then forced
immortals are likely to be lab rats me
as well and all pets might get it before
we do which would certainly be welcome
as you know pets tend not to live as
long as we do
I think it's whether or not I say it's
less likely or not or not I do think
it's a very you know this is not a
outside possibility this is well as
thing as well it's quite probable that
we might get to have very extended lives
those of us in my age range which is 38
yeah let's go with 38 for today but I
don't like to encourage people to bet on
that I just don't think it's an outside
probability it's not long odds is access
asks about fusion could you so that
we'll come back to that one if I can
read it battle aim Lee ass do you go to
any conventions I do not
I might down the road I have gone to
them just as an absorber in the past but
I don't marry many good ones in Ohio
that I'm familiar with and I really
don't we like going out someplace like
San Diego for comic-con
and it sounds like a fun event but I
don't like crowds that much so which
might be something I changed my mind
about later on I think the closer I'll
be doing that is I'm going to be giving
a public talk at the Carnegie Science
Center in Pittsburgh in June I think
I'll update on details for them as I be
fun to do so we'll get this kind of my
trial learn for public appearances
question um what's your thoughts on the
extinction bringing extinct animals back
would you actually have an episode on
that I think that was what the top of
last year yeah all the january/february
of 2018 we did an episode I think titled
the extinction or something close to
that super bring any animal back it's
gotta be one of those examples where
you're deciding how accurately do you
want to bring it back we talked about
something that's so extinct we know you
haven't ene for it and in all this case
you're not gonna get DNA there's no DNA
left over for dinosaurs you might be
able to backtrack and make some guesses
about how that would walk but that's
probably about the extent of what we
could do but a close approximation that
might walk fall purposes especially
because when you're talking about a
species in the fossil record then you
usually we have one or two examples of
an actual species at best to talk about
a very broad range of timelines you
might find a dozen phosphorus or
something over ten million years that's
uh that's leaves a lot of variables in
terms of evolution and change anyway
last question for you to the break do
you think all life in the universe has
DNA and if so would all life across the
cosmos share an ancestral origin that's
kind of a biochemistry question we have
to model whether or not you could do
alternatives to DNA from amino acid
chains and there's a lot of amino acids
meaning is about 20 let me use foreign
DNA and there was a lot more than 20 and
that's assuming you even need to use
amino acids for your data storage for a
self-replicating machine like life but
RNA is an example of something that is
not DNA
that kind of proves that there was at
least some room for for things other
than DNA I would tend to assume amino
acid constructs like that would be an
enormous and when we come back we'll
cover more your questions hi there I'm
Cindy managing director at SFI a thank
you again for joining us in tonight's
live stream while we're on break I'd
like to take a moment to tell you about
our discord server where we'll be
continuing tonight's conversation with
Isaac after we finish here if there's
something else you'd like to discuss
with Isaac or the community or if you
have a suggestion for future content
that you'd like to see in the channel
we'd love to hear from you
to get involved simply click the link in
the description of this video and follow
the instructions in the entry point
channel if you'd like to jump through
the voice Channel you'll have to enable
push-to-talk simply go into your
settings by clicking the gear shaped
icon in the lower left portion of your
discord client from there click on a
voice and video and select the option
for push-to-talk you'll have to assign a
key in the shortcut box below then click
outside the box to save your choice to
speak you'll have to press and hold this
button again thank you for joining us
tonight enjoy the rest of the livestream
and have a great evening
okay and we're back
Thank You Colonel Graff and MJ before I
forget you guys were just seen the in a
mission with Sindri on their day off a
lot of folks who helped make this
channel you know what it is today which
is a lot better than when it was a solo
process I have to say at least my
opinion things have gotten a lot better
since only days and I do want to thank
all those folks and I'm hoping for those
of Monroe not camera shy or shy of
exposure that we'll have a chance to
feature more of those in episodes and
breaks as we go on but this is no longer
really science and future one with the
eyes of Gulf oil is a lot of folks
involved in it and I really can't thank
them enough for their time oh and for
those of you who are supporting us on
patreon or with the super chat today
thank you so much
you'll make the channel possible so
going back to those questions MJ ass
will you make a vid on Chris Paul or
designer babies yes we will but not a
little while we do actually have some
folks speaking of folks help me on the
channel who are more biology focused and
can help me make sure we're doing that
actually I was a little bit gun shy of
doing episodes no outside of physics and
space because that's my area so got to
be careful going outside your own area
without folks who really know what
they're talking about to make sure
you're not making mistakes Dan Lewis ass
are you planning a collaborations with
Joe from answers of the Joe you a Glee
reference and I think you would work
well together on a futurism video I
think we did one early or last year I
want to say around August five ways they
you both might be destroyed and what we
can do to stop it
Joe is a good friend and we do talk
quite regularly and I'm sure we'll walk
together more in the future so not sure
when we don't everything plan these
things but the collaborations between
other channels those tend to happen
fairly quickly actually we got one
coming up with Jade from up an atom in a
couple of actually being some time you
have public couple months down the road
but that just got planned a couple of
days ago so it always seems couple
months for us to make an episode but we
tend to plan them kind of be planet and
then we make it basically so there's
always a fun zone beyond those I don't
know Joe and I haven't planned anything
again recently we
people do something this year I guess
Jacque cop asks from my 12 year old
niece if we know that the lack of
gravity has adverse effects we know that
low teen sections create gravity so
what's the problem why don't we make
future ships this way we almost
certainly will I probably to speed up
with mass on these so we get to all
these questions we almost certainly will
make ships of mo teen sections unless we
find something better or we find out
that you really just don't need gravity
for the travel right now we don't have
these because we don't have any
interplanetary ships that oh man so
there's no need and up of the space
station trying to match a no gravity
section with a routine section as a bit
of a pain with a small station like that
and we don't actually want gravity on
the station currently we have a million
place to test gravity down here on earth
we only have one place we do experiments
in zero gravity and that's on the space
station so right now doesn't really
behoove us to build a section like that
however I would guess that whatever
places the ISS or upgrades the ISS will
likely include a spinning section either
lunar or Martian gravity and I would
expect to be the norm for spaceships
Joseph asks do you think reigniting the
core most we Eliab or method of
terraforming no no I don't it does not
take that much power or to create a ring
around a planet that will generate a
magnetic sphere you can just do a spin
ring that's not high-tech it's spinning
ring is with electricity through it will
give you a big magnetic sphere trying to
dig down into mouths and blow up the
core to get it spinning again is not
really the best approach something like
that you at that point you basically
talk about rebuilding the entire planet
and you have to maintain that too so
beam just easier to build and maintain a
ring than to build and maintain cool
notation than Mo's
Kringle XS is there enough material for
an episode on a mega engineered science
experiments eg circumstellar particle
colliders we could probably do an
episode that covered a lot of the
smaller ones but I don't know that we
could really do something that was
specifically say very large super
collider although maybe we could there's
certainly a lot of videos that I'll
focus on just one
you could do a particle collider around
the Sun you can do one around the solar
system I think I want somebody
suggesting you could do one around the
entire galaxy and in fact I think that
was the part of the part of a Stephen
Baxter novel from the zealey sequence we
could potentially do an episode that was
more of a survey of various non habitats
based mega structures that actually does
sound like a fun idea maybe more thing
about that one
good-o bleating ass serious question how
will humanity with stagnating both rates
in the future where we ever be able to
populate another gravity well or will
our population remain the same you don't
have stagnant in both weights this is a
misconception in fact even most
developed nations do not have declining
birth rates what we have is a mixture of
science making it much harder to get
pregnant accidentally and people
generally want to live longer before
they have kids that kind of a bit of a
controversial subject but there is the
discussion on that topic is thus fall in
my opinion at least not very logical
rational evidence-based obviously poet
rates have declined from what they used
to be no one can debate that but to me
the reason so simply that we have less
accidental bullets so the analogy that
we would just keep having a declining
birthrate as we got more prosperous has
never struck me as very sound reasoning
you know you correlation is die equal
causation without the case though you do
have a lot of other options on the table
and if you do get something like life
extension it kind of breaks the entire
mode especially if people can keep
having kids and there's no real reason
why they could not you can always Chrome
in a tank if you have to so I really do
not see that as a threat if people are
living a lot longer they can wait a lot
longer to have kids and most people
would not have any problem having eight
or nine kids comfortably over a
millennia and have nothing more dying of
old age your population goes up so
obviously a concern for a lot of
industrialized nations right now that do
have declining population growth or even
in some cases negative growth though
there's not very many of those that
maintain that often you'll see one year
that it was negative and that's what
people focus on rather than the rest of
the decade it was slightly positive
next question do cryo chambers walk if I
freeze my 18 years self or 100 years
will I wake up in 2019 it's like 2119 is
a healthy fully functioning 18 award if
I freeze you you are dead um but you are
fairly static - the damage that's done
gee but I haven't been frozen that's
potentially repairable the idea is that
it's kind of like saving somebody in a
lossless state you can potentially
repair them afterwards or come close
enough that makes no difference
in - you can actually undo that process
which almost certainly requires nano
technology and what we need for a life
extension it does not walk but the
concept of cryo right now is not to to
free someone wake them up as to freeze
them in a state where they could be
repaired once that technology is
available so and that respect I'd say I
mean if you feel like any foes and I've
considered abandoned puppy will just out
of curiosity for its mother word
subaerial or you've woken up in a
century or two it I'm gonna make much
difference to me I think the real
bailiff asks what is the future
technology you are personally looking
forward the most to fusion or automated
manufacture
not necessarily full-blown artificial
intelligence at the human level but
automated automated automated software
do things like drive a car safely or you
know run a factory without a lot of
human oversight that all fusion both
gives you you know an infinite amount of
energy so to speak or an infinite amount
of manpower to build stuff either one of
those really changes the dynamics unless
I start pushing outward too much high or
well I mean just across the board and
improves everything the standard of
living I would imagine the stress and
happiness levels and you know the helps
the environment to say the least
and that does open thinking the gateway
to space either one of those just makes
it so much easier to do all the space
expansion we discuss Otis asked does
gravity waves act more like a post or
pressure wave like a gust of wind or is
it more relatable to the surface tension
of water like a sophomore skimming along
the
sophist you know I'm not actually
certain that either there was really
good analogy or what you're asking for
they are but we don't have enough data
on gravity waves yet to really be
discussing them to accurately anyway so
I'm gonna have to punt on that question
sorry
yup cup ass similar to the concept of
suicide pact technology do you think
there are technologies which will mostly
ensure that civilization does not like
itself out so normal voice k so suicide
pact technology is one that kind of
sneaks up on you that you definitely use
and would kill you you know you won't
expect you to or walks petting too but
couldn't quite be yourselves not use or
couldn't stop that from happening
for instance if somebody to make
antimatter in their basement without
even be able to catch them doing it
that's kind of a suicide pact technology
because someone's a lunatic who's gonna
build enough to kill everybody as for
ones that would prevent I'd say space
travel would be really the biggest
technology that would ensure survival
you're dealing with distances at that
scale its Mesa virtually impossible for
any natural catastrophe or even an
artificial intelligence based one to
really get everybody so I would say that
the best way to ensure species doesn't
die off is to practice the policy that
we've always used in evolution which is
basically make yourself more survivable
in your environment and spread out to
other environments where you can adapt
to them that's a very proven survival
method so that would be the way I'd say
is probably the best one for us to
pursue and technologies that help on
either those funds would basically help
with that process Jeremy asks does a
motion theories claim that 3d Planck
length I'm gonna have to bypass that one
were description last one they all asked
do you think that there may be some
development developmental technologies
that are being ignored since they seem
too fantastical I would actually say
that to a degree Fusion is kinda like
that right now just because people are
kind of gone this 20 years mindset as we
discussed to all the oil and the same
for life extension people treat that one
it's a founder of youth potion so it
must be must be snake oil would you
actually have a fair number of examples
like that well it's people just
disinclined to believe in them we've
been born a few too many times and so
they don't really get the serious
funding attention and resources they
need eric asks what do you expect what
do you expect the effect of deep fakes
and generalized ability to create
artificial but photorealistic fake
models of people will be I'm not
familiar with its own deep fakes but I'm
gonna guess here that what you mean is
won't be the effect of you know to model
people accurately enough that they would
that you could do a model of them that
people could not tell the difference
basically something that was a toy and
compliant is it wore not solution you
couldn't tell was a machine or robot but
you couldn't tell was a specific person
may I should get a great example of that
and I know I suggest this book to people
a lot revelation space by Alastair
Reynolds he's got something called a
beta emulation and a lot of people use
them as an assistant but something like
that can kind of a place you if
something should happen to you same as a
mind uploaded and that's a great example
of how we really can't tell you know how
good does a copy need to be as depends
on what your purpose is if you need a
copy of you that's supposed to kind of
fulfill your duties in life that you
would be worried about going away if you
died or went on a long trip then it only
needs to be that good if a copy and in
for a lot of people that's gonna be good
enough something that could really is
their kids to some degree if they die it
for instance so in that ago that would
be one of those things might expect you
to see a lot of people using that
legitimately and I think you'd obviously
have a lot of concerns about identity
theft or fraud for something like that
to I hope that was kind of where you
aiming with that question Trey asked can
you start a subscribe stall channel for
those of us who have left patreon
I mean trying to avoid the patreon
controversy a little bit I'll leave it
are those to discuss that matter but at
the moment I'm not stoning a subscribes
to all counts I've considered it I might
in a month or two but this is a
relatively new syllabus and right now
it's basically getting used to giving
rather negative reviews and in the last
couple months something has very
positive
use and certainly I'd love to increase
the ways that people can donate to the
channel but I want to be absolutely sure
any place where people are putting their
personal information and money yet is
very solid in terms of its user
interface safety security privacy things
like that
in the mean time for those of you who
specifically don't wanna use patreon or
PayPal on our website on the donate link
you can actually just mail checks in to
me and the address there by the way I
collect postcode so if you feel like
sending a postcard by p.o box they are
on the website is any place you can send
those and I'm always quiet for those
actually I got a few of the newer ones
up there off so I don't know why I just
like postcards the next question if you
could stick your real brain into a robot
body and then destroying copy every
single neuron in your brain say slowly
so slowly you would eventually your
brain was only free is this if you could
copy neurons into an artificial state in
your body and basically replace them
with something mechanical and do it
gradually would you still be you that's
a ship of theseus argument with the
slight caveat that you in this case you
were building the ship from being wooden
to being plastic or metal and then it
always comes down to how much of you is
you this gradual replacement concept it
has a lot of appeal to people I think a
lot of folks feel that the gradual
placement option where you're just
slowly replacing one neuron at a time is
somehow more likely to preserve identity
than if we just did it instantaneously
where we just replaced every single one
at once so I think a lot of people would
go that way
from a philosophical standpoint though
I'm not really sure what the difference
in replacing them one at a time of or
decade forces on one millisecond really
is
they still mend replace with something
new there's overhauling a ship over the
course of a year make it different than
I do it in one second and that's a no
you will point from a practical
standpoint though I would definitely
want to replace them one at a time
simply because of something's going
wrong you know there's a lot more time
to fix it notice it and
to witness me slowly change things out I
suspect most folks would gradually
replace them and when they got to like
half their brain was at level being
replaced they publish your sake now and
replace the best I'm getting behind
other questions sorry about that
you know ass if we build a
self-replicating spaceship and left them
alone for millions of years would they
eventually undergo evolution like
organic creatures by default yes anytime
you have something that's
self-replicating off a pattern you would
have mutations of that pattern and that
mutation is gonna follow that more
survivability more likely reproduce
approach there are a lot of ways you can
make it stay down mutate much though
check some point some other ways we we
make sure they doesn't flip over here
you can also use several different
contributors
you know like xx parts you have to get
together or compare all the data and go
with the the agreed on majority to avoid
a copy or and then that's what they
produce our DNA is not actually meant or
at least it is not used for the purpose
of being a very accurate copy it is a
very accurate copy to be failed but
there's no biological incentive to no
mutation so we are pretty high mutation
rate as a result of that we could build
something that mutated way less
potentially that it was less likely to
mutate over the course of the entire
universe even one time than not and it
all depends on how see if you want to be
with your replication but by default
they would mutate have you ever
considered putting together a making-of
episode as small um yes we have and in
fact the the to subscribe or specials
the 100,000 subscriber on to and 50,000
subscriber special actually all making
of episodes to some degree the problem
is that I tend to feel like people would
find it almost the audience would not
find it all that interesting to put one
of those together and wash that and it
does take just much time it's another
episode so I always want to give people
or look behind the scenes that they want
it but I usually say if you really want
to what's going on behind the scenes
join the production team and you're
going to find out
our ways of war question are there any
theoretical technologies which would
allow us to convert cosmic radiation
into electrical energy to fuel shield
spacecraft ambient radiation is almost
always going to be a bit of a loser for
trying to create heat off of there also
only levels of radiation out there that
would not be running into a specific
thermodynamic limitation on that you
can't generate energy in a unit bathtub
that's at lukewarm temperature already
it's it's there's no energy to be
processed out of that no temperature
difference with the cosmic microwave
background radiation specifically the
the CMB that is spread more or less
evenly all over the universe even the
hot spots and cold spots vary by
millikelvin from each other so you're
not really able to generate power off
something like that except possibly in
the large home sense of letting it fall
into a very very large black holes which
would so be really doubt words when the
universe even cool more so I can only
see that being an option
Zane asks do you think would there be a
benefit to uplifting and
unextinguishable of teens say a cat or a
dog or a chimpanzee look at that a
little bit in we have an episode called
the future of pets in only April that's
national pet day that it's on and we do
talk about that a little bit more they
also I'll say that mostly for them but I
think there would be a benefit to making
all pets a little bit smaller I'm not
sure that we would want them to be as
small as us that has a lot of
ramifications ethically and practically
that you might want to avoid my guess in
your view what will be the future
portion device what will the future
postal device be like as a phone camera
while it's keys etc converged together
where we go after that I would tend to
guess we wouldn't go anyway after that
you really are going to have something
that's implanted into you that's kind of
you know faced and part of you that
handles all that stuff or you're going
to not want to do that and have a device
you carry around and that device is
presumably going to have to be big
enough for you to manipulate with your
hands
so you wouldn't want to have it
micro-sized more than there like a phone
currently as but you could have
something that was small that was just
the computer that did that and then you
you were maybe comfortable some kind of
interface that was allowing you talk to
it but wasn't too intrusive in your head
so you could type or speak to it so
that's a possibility
you still need a way to display that so
possibly glasses plus a device that was
voice-activated but I think that she's
going to keep convulsion towards that or
implantation Thank You Bella can you
comment on gateways von Braun plans I
have to be careful talking about that
because for those you know I'm kind of
attached and they send me a lot of the
emails discussing when they were getting
ready for this I know this just came out
for everybody else in the last few weeks
but I've been familiar with it for a
couple months now we've had an email
chain going for it the von Braun is a
classic Space Station design I would
love to see one get built and it's a lot
more modest than the gig waste plans
which is a lot more mass than less stuff
we discuss here
I always like the idea of building
monies things when way or and how the
funny will happen is another story and I
don't want to get too into the details
discussing anybody specific plan yay or
nay Thank You Harry and George and brick
and so Haley again there's a super chat
donations without questions attach them
here he asked where would one find the x
y&z axis of the nearest 100 stalls I
think space engine has them and like
Google Sky Force drill down has them but
you can look those up I'm like Wikipedia
try searching a list of the nearest 100
stars and it is a Wikipedia page that
actually has the closest stars to auth
and I would actually bet somebody would
be very familiar and do that no audience
right now might want to paste that into
the chat all the comments in the end if
they know a better source I don't
usually look those up too often less I
want to specifically check the time from
like going to Epsilon Eridani from the
solar system and then on to see dr.
Pavone s in which case I just do the
trigonometry it's his time
Devin asks why not use racetrack to add
a moon time magnets
I'm sorry I'm dumb and I'm not really
clear what you're asking there Jeff as
jeff says thank you for your hard work
to make this the most entertaining
channel and star badass I've ordered the
theory that our system is actually a
binary and that our Sun has a hidden
dimension or foreground or twin out
there do you agree this is possible reg
wolf no we would see that by now brown
dwarf I don't know we can actually rule
that one out just yet we did get a I
can't know the exact distance I think we
brought out any chills within within a
thousand au of us and a pound Rolf would
be biggle we will know they answer that
question for sure inside the next ten
years or so though we just had to get
put out mapping out those really big
objects now things more size we might
find them all over the outer solar
system so I mean a lot of pollutant
OIG's or very small objects might be out
there probably not a binary though if
Swiss canton will allow complete yet I
think Ian asked hey Isaac what are some
other careers in this field would you
suggest for someone who is a dummy non
doctorate-level but still makes a decent
living and contributes to search for
life hmm I don't know if there's a lot
of professions for actual like steady
walk out they are you know what I do of
course making videos explain things
people I love doing this I mean it's not
technically in my day job but it takes
more of my time up in my day job these
days that might be one way to go I know
let me think on that one it's a good
question though because I know a lot of
us really I to get more involved in the
future ISM stuff and we one seem like
something could make much of a career
out of present company excluded and you
know there's obviously a niche for
talking about it but we'd like to see
more people doing it and a lot of this
case you'd have to pick a specific
project that you wanted to be involved
in for the future or something like
sends for instance or the Gateway
project dimensionally oh and just make
it go something like that you know go
get a job at SpaceX or Google for
instance John asks in a world where
algorithms automation and AI are better
at any job and humans what would be the
economic value of humans and if you're
reading this you're probably at the
five-minute mark
okay that's from sin juries or money as
the show in shortly that's always a
problem we will talk about the future of
pets as
episode in April there's always the in
joke that we in the future humans might
be the pets of some you know massively
improved or augmented humans or AI that
really didn't need us or didn't need us
that much you know dogs and cats are
still quite useful to us but they're
clearly not you know equals and partners
as much as you know we would like to be
free that might replace us I think
though that that is always a question
with AI if you make something that's
just model across the board whether it's
a post human or an artificial
intelligence what does that leave for us
and for those folks who don't want to
become such things themselves if their
options even on the table are they gonna
wants to come out for that or do they
want to go somewhere else
I would not want to be someone's pet
their friend their junior pono I might
be okay with but not a pet you know and
I don't think many people feel happy
about that and so there was always a
question of whether or not that sort of
thing is inevitable a lot of people feel
that it is and if so how long will it
take for it to be inevitable and there's
no easy answer for something like that
I'm not that I'm familiar with in terms
of technology advancing how do you stop
something like that without a mangie
really want to you know always one being
selfish by saying that we're not gonna
let ourselves be replaced I would still
rather not be replaced though so it's
just not question we can answer yet
we're going to be watching very
carefully though because it's not just a
concern for science fiction anymore
these have become real concerns the
amount of times and we got to start
looking at those and start looking at
you know what do we do with people when
we put them out of work for a job
they've always done and we don't have
anything to replace it with it all you
know these are not easy to solve issues
but they are not issues for just now
posing what they are in front of us
today so hopefully you know with so many
more Minds looking at it a serious way
we'll come up with some better solutions
it would take two more questions and
then we'll go ahead and cut out Rick
Miller asks and so much of our
personality and intelligence is related
to failures for body and brain do you
think would even be possible to maintain
our identity if uploaded into a
computerized body
it depends on whether or not you're
emulating it when we say substrate
specifically substrate what we mean is
not this say something improved it's
just the same basic design only it's
been emulated by a different core
material if you're perfectly emulating a
human mind in value in a digital
simulation then buying some factor we
can't anticipate that we should be you
know you flop Atticus's same behavior
however if you're not doing the
emulation well enough or if you're
leaving room for variation that you
start having a lot of changes you know
theoretically my logo should look the
same on the screen on the wall on my mug
and long mug but the substrate that's
printed on makes a big difference and
that should be the case for almost
anything we try to do we start messing
around things like we make you so you
think 10% fast or that's gonna have a
huge impact on your personality if we
just do it straight out if we upload you
to something that would have a huge
impact on your personality if you became
aware of the you uploaded even was a
perfect emulation so I don't think we
actually we technically can make a copy
I mean it should be possible to make a
perfect copy as a war the effort
involved there might be unpractical and
might take a lot of time to get up that
level so I think a lot of oily
emulations would have to really be
washed very carefully for major
personality changes or psychosis jab
asks what are your thoughts on
deflecting ACM II by harvesting it so it
splits or is shunted away from off
coronal mass ejections aren't really
huge threats to earth
even with all hi-tech infrastructural
but you should be understood something
like that magnetically yeah I mean you
could put something at the Lagrange
points of the Sun there was just a big
magnetic field that kind of disposed
anything that was coming our way or we
could put it close to the Sun and into a
lag on orbit combination withstand
it--and they normal but we've talked
about before we're just kind of stay
between us and the Sun reflects up like
that away and of course you have the
solar option that we might want to make
use of in for concerns like global
warming or climatic change which become
morphic and so on we start having things
like fusion massively pumping out lots
of energy or if you
putting up with power satellites so that
is definitely a manageable problem but I
was tending deflecting away from us
would be the best approach and you could
do that magnetically last question from
so last us sela cast Thank You Sela cast
mind a question do you think a motion
year one should start on the year of
malice one survival or the year on the
force human step on mars pragmatism I
would want to start on January forced
although actually I like January for us
to be the winter solstice just because
I've always felt like it should be the
solstice that changes up in the official
year but I generally know that you were
starting a new calendar adopt the
previous ones start up system or you're
gonna have a lot of confusion now mind
you there's more days in the motion year
than there on the audio so you can have
that completely to a stove or but I
think if I was going to do I year one
follow the moment somebody did something
specific I would say is when a boot
would hit the ground when someone
actually steps on the malls so we've you
another episode of more sometime soon
anyway we are gonna go ahead and close
out here as we mentioned before we do
have the website up as well as the new
discourse or voice chat that we're going
to an about about 30 minutes and if you
want to enjoy so where they are we're
gonna have instructions again on what to
do they open I hope you'll take a look
at the website forced and that again
will this Thursday I'll absolutely
secret aliens and we can't that will be
hitchhiking in the galaxy which is a fun
one and I hope we'll see while they are
and we will be doing our next life
monthly livestream on March 30 forced
time to be determined thank you so much
for joining us tonight and we will see
you on Thursday so that's it for a live
stream but we were not quite done for
the day as we'll be heading over to the
SFI a discord so for for some voice chat
we will be taking a quick break so I can
catch my breath and starting up there at
the bottom of the owl
630 east own and depending on when the
livestream ends
probably a little after 6:00 you can
spend the downtime checking out the SFI
a website Isaac allthough net which
we've just finished upgrading as with
the original website you can see all the
videos they are as well
find new ways to donate or help out the
channel including buying SFI a
merchandise but we've also added some
new features like all forums where you
can chat with the rest of the SFI a
community a list of books we recommend
on the channel and links to them and an
about page where you can get to know a
lot of the folks behind the scenes here
at SFI a as well as links to all social
media platforms and the audio only
versions of the episodes available for
free download at SoundCloud and on
iTunes needless to say this is just the
forced wave of upgrades and we'll be
adding as time goes on and this is the
grand opening so there may be a bug or
two so check out the website and then
come on over to discord to join us for
some more Q&A and please do remember to
enable push-to-talk and since there's
likely to be a lot of folks in there
please make sure to keep any questions
concise
