we'll be starting in just a moment and
feel free to put your questions right
into the chat for our mods to come and
screen and please try to keep them clear
legible and understandable as always we
welcome super chats to help support the
show and you can also find links to our
websites and other options in the
episode description with all that said
welcome and let's get
started always some kind of technical to
start things off good afternoon everyone
and welcome to science and futurisms
monthly live stream Q&A on October 29th
we're going just one moment though we
keep having some minor technical issues
so it might be a little bit glitchy uh
as we get used to it which to be fair
happens a lot of the time
so as usual we joined by my lovely wife
and co-host Sarah F arthor who will be
reading off your questions from the
audience and we will go ahead and get
started with those uh whenever you guys
are ready you mean whenever the phone
actually let me see I can bring them up
to actually ask questions off of instead
while I move that around I got a new
phone and it won't let me log into
anything so um Imagination ship ask
which do you think is more plausible to
come to fruition FTL or
multivorum we don't know how to actually
get into touch with any kind of multiv
force or detecting multiv Force so we
don't know if there's going to be any
way to get between them if they exist
and in meanful sense you should be able
to travel to them so either they don't
exist and you can't travel to them or
they do exist and you probably can you
could be the philosophical argument that
you cannot contact them detect them or
anything in any fashion they may as well
not exist and that's maybe semantic but
um in that regard there's nothing that
says it's impossible if they exist and
if we can detect them we can probably
travel to them interact with them all
right the next question thank you Maya
skill for droing it in so it would
actually ping me and is from Raven hi
Isaac what practical uses might
suborbital space flight have um you know
sub is actually one of those examples to
explain that to people is when you orb a
planet you go around it in a a soal
ellipse when you're going sub you on an
elliptical pathway that would actually
know set to the planet but you can go up
high in the air and fall right back down
again that would be example of subro
flight that would actually take you
higher up than the uh normal distance
you are to spend so one example of a
subal flight we might use regularly
would be active sport inside like a
space tower that is pretty much always
by definition going to be suborbital
just cuz you're trying to push things up
um it's also used for icbms a lot too
you get those deflected pathor is
because it's uh you don't actually want
them to have a chance to shoot your old
objects so you use a suppressed
trajectory instead to land on fastor so
those will be examples of how subor
flight might be useful delivering
weapons delivering I think we talked
about this in the the so and Rescue
episode uh you might actually drop drop
not just weapons or troops down but uh
so and rescue post know at very very
high velocities and that would be
example where those kind of depressed
trajectory trajectories or um some water
Flats could be useful that would be the
major ones that can go off top of my
head all right we have a question that
was actually posted on Reddit and it's
from Miami's last capitalist thank you
for your Super Chat are there any
possible plans to save the ISS from
destruction burning in atmosphere
um I mean I guess that would be the
question of are we do we have a way of
saving it if it suddenly goes down into
the atmosphere more than it should um
and that would be all be out timing if
there was a launch window to get back
momentum uh if you mean the sense of
when we retire it are we just going to
let it fall into the uh
atmosphere um I would hope not but at
the same time when we retire it because
it would be safely useful anymore and um
that would be example of where do you do
you want to pay a lot of money to keep
it up there or can you find a new
purpose and of course you don't retire
if you can find a new purpose but um it
would be sad to let that one fall down I
I'd rather we spend some extra energy it
might be quite a lot of extra energy to
push into a higher orbit so we could
just orbit for a long time and then we
could real more prosperous and space fa
and cultureal rescue our relics as
opposed to just getting them stepped on
or destroyed in the atmosphere as
happened to all the other previous space
stations those are gone forever you know
going to get those back and uh I hate to
see the ISS join them but at the same
time rescuing it might be very expensive
so maybe you can settle this debate if
the enemy has fired missiles at your
spaceship which is a better point for
defense laser or kinetic and if mixed
how so uh by the way apologies every you
see a little flickering across the scene
I'm getting those twoo I think it's CU
we got the new studio setup I don't know
if you notice it's a little bit
different than than normal um we've been
rearranging the whole week so um what
would you use the problem with using
something like a laser is that it it
once you let it go it's gone right same
as a normal bullet but the thing is a
normal kinetic Mass bullet could have a
little rocket engine and a piece of
guidance that lets it move um and so in
that regard the laser is your best for
really close really rapid response stuff
cuz you can pump that through there at
the speed of light for things that
further away to where the object might
have enough Delta V to be able to
around then it becomes a bit of a
different um issue you might want
something that actually has homing
capacity and a bu change its trajectory
I'll give you an example uh we talked
about this more in Space Warfare if
you're not catching little bits go to
that video but when you are coming
towards something and at Space level
distances where the speed of light is
actually going to take a second or you
know at least a few milliseconds to
reach you um your spe you cannot react
to that you can't see someone's po your
laser at you and Dodge but you can
preemptively react to it by Jinky a
little bit to the side left or right and
when you're in space a little bit of
Delta V you if you sudden move one meter
to the second to the right you know a
second later you all meet over to the
right when you have those unpredictable
velocities they're going to get missed a
lot more and those only exaggerated a
great of distances which is why things
like lasers you can keep on target are
no good Beyond a certain range that's
probably probably anything bigger than
CIS or space would not be good for
anything intelligent you might still use
it for taking out asteroid clumps but
not a spaceship but that was a warship
and they could have moved the side in
advance and so when your when your
object gets there it can react and move
to whereas or do it as the way while the
laser is going to miss so it would
depend on the range of the ships and the
amount of thrust they had to move around
but it's not necessar a Thrust issue
because let's say I have two pods that
are connected by a tether or a beam uh
they don't have to expend any rocket
fuel on their way to me these two pay
missiles to go like this back and forth
up and down spin around they can do that
basically fuel free and so that's one of
those ways you can kind of cheat around
that and get avoid getting hit by lasers
but not if you're too close so lasers
for closing further away missiles or
other guided systems where that breaking
point is it could be hard to
say so we have a question here from
Christian Carell and thank you for your
super chat if you can combine two or
more drives for a spaceship which would
you pick and how would you arrange them
I considered combining solar sales with
Orion drives but learn from quora that
wouldn't work I don't know why that
wouldn't work um so what you would
normally do with something like an a
Ryan Drive uh is use it to slow down um
because if you if you do not have a way
to slow down your destination you're
going to be in trouble you can also
magnetically slow down too but the
combination that would probably work
best that's just known technology would
be a mixture of laser sale uh which
might be you might be microwaves as
opposed to lasers but same difference
laser sale and um maybe a MAG sail to
slow down with and an Orion drive to
provide some of your additional oom my
optimal way for doing that for combining
two drives would probably be the laser
sale to get you going uh then a nuclear
reactor to keep you alive while you're
going obviously Fusion will be nicer
than fision uh if you've got it and then
I would have a big PO on the front of
the ship that has nothing but a
compacted SE in it basically my own
shooing flowers to go through St space
and it has all of my extra nukes uh and
all of my extra sale and when we're
approaching the next star that we're
going to get to it pops three push those
back a little itself forward a little
bit and accelerates in towards that star
a little bit and then spreads it sail
slows down and sells that daisy chain
laser sail thing we've talked about
before where whichever sail reaches the
sun Force being slowed down as a solar
sail uses all that energy it's
collecting to hit the one behind it to
slow it down which does in to you have
something it's a fixed beaming station
at that location that would be hard to
coordinate but it should be something
that theoretically doable so um as with
a lot of things depends on what the
engineer is going to let you do and
that's a hard one to test but um you
could do that by say launching them in
from Pluto or something like that U at
our own son as oppos having to wait till
you get alpas andari see if it works and
that would be the best one unless you
got a really good us Ram Jet setup that
actually lets you slow down at least
that way which might be
better the next question is from Samuel
Tweedle thoughts on cold welding also
known as vacuum
welding
um not too many uh I'm like the only I
and my family doesn't know how to weld
and all my uncles and cousins weld
regularly so I'm actually not that big
of not that knowledgeable how they do
welding in space
um I would say in a lot of these cases
you might actually see a lot of welding
going on while it's actually pressurized
you might see it a lot of CAS as well
what they do is put some kind of seal
over top as they walking maybe even just
a suction cup over the spot being welded
just so that there's a little bit more
normality going in and that might give
you additional options how to weld most
time you'll be welding in space on Space
habitat you're doing a pressurize to set
up so um I don't know that you'd always
necessarily be wanting to do vacuum
welding that way but beyond that I'm
afraid I can't tell you too
much our Channel regular Albert Jackson
welcome back thank you for being with us
hi Isaac and Sarah it's good to be back
good see you too hope you enjoyed your
trip with a total solar eclipse coming
up what astronomical phenomena might
people be able to view once we expand
outwards into the solar system um hm let
me
think probably one of the needest things
to do is going to be anytime you could
actually see an eclipse on the sun um
from another planet and you can do that
at like the uh the L2 point when you
Planet you should be able to get to
eclipses there um but a lot of them do
have fairly distant ranges they might
not fully Eclipse it but you should be
able to especially with the spaceship
spend protracted periods of times in a
planet's total shadow um the problem is
that things like Mercury and Venus are
smaller than Earth and a lot closer to
the Sun whereas the L2 Point really is
not so I don't know if they'd really be
completely in Shadow the way the other
the James web telescope for instance is
um you could do that with Saturn or
Venus for sure I think that you'd have a
lot of really interesting conjunctions
on the planets that uh the sorry the
moons out around the big old planets too
but in terms of really neat astronomical
phenomena the biggest one it's one that
alth C Clark talked about before we even
got up in space is that you see way more
stars you know it's it's a kind of a
mistake that think about it is Stars
don't twinkle in space CU they're very
Vivid and they're very single dots of
light there's no atmosphere getting in
the way they won't twinkle they but
they'll be thousands and thousands more
of them um and they'll be always there
whereas the sun is always in the other
direction shining there is no night time
in space unless you're behind a planet
the sun is always at 4 noon Glo so there
will be a very different way of looking
at the world and one of those things to
look for when we do get the solo Eclipse
which will be passing over this house uh
in April
is that um we'll be in the total Z Zone
to total total zone for that it's
perfect and um I'm probably going to
throw a party that day um but
uh is the way watch the way that the
light goes down because you you'll use
two twilight levels of light and you'll
get those but they won't be the normal
Twilight colors it'll be the same Vivid
daytime noon colors but toned down
whereas you kind of get used to always
seeing everything in glare so it is very
different experience that everything
just feels a little bit stranger off
during solar eclipse I think that would
be the way it is on a lot of different
plats too because it will be normal in
some ways but all the more strange
because of how it's
different all right so scooter GSP says
you frequently mention Hydroponics
playing a large role in the future but
multiple sources have said that
hydroponically grown vegetables taste
terrible how can this issue be resolved
um I mean that's a tricky one makes you
think of artificial meat then they forc
growing artificial meat the biggest
problem they found was that people
didn't like it then they put blood on it
and then was like oh this tastes great
now it's it's yeah I love this stuff
that that was what I was missing was
blood so um but for Hydroponics I I grew
up on hot house Tomatoes as pretty
common thing my grandfather house had a
green house um attached to our house um
your grandfather to it's a really one
yeah so and
um I I kind of got used to uh those W
hydroponic ones in those though um I
don't know I don't know what would be
missing for them particularly I would
think that might be something like
lettuce or the sugar bricks you your
sunlight is what creates the sweetness
flavor and certain micronutrients are
what causes them to be tasty or not
tasty so it probably depends on what
your mix in the water is and whether or
not you have a good light combination to
actually get some sweetness into the
vegetable that's probably very true if
what anybody to know my wife is a former
by trade and father and grandfather were
a ad cultural scientist and a
Horticultural scientist so it's it's
kind of one of those areas she knows way
more about than I do sorry jumping in
all right do you have anything else to
add on that nope not provided thank you
for your super chat I don't mean to
bother you too much but I wanted to
follow up on if you can do an episode on
the pans cos morio hypothesis
yes or at least a very short explanation
on this stream and ask the audience
it's funny you should ask that wait till
the intermission but then after the uh
intermission um wait until early January
it should be actually up there one of
the slides that would run up there cuz I
decided after doing the I think it was
the in mission for this month um that I
needed to discuss it even more so it has
an episode in January so okay wonderful
so coming right up Nano if you did a
video on life in 23 2323 ad how would
that differ from Life in 23 23 uh well
23 23 23 ad will be the year 2 milion
233 wait I got that um no 200,000 320
yeah okay so in the year 200,000 we did
one that's um that's when the episode
um Intergalactic colonization the it's
the last one for the unity uh for that
series and as a life in a space colonist
they out the the system we call the Tois
system around some brown dwarf or very
large Jovian and they ability a fleet to
go to Andromeda uh that that was the
life ining 23 23 23 23 ad uh Al be we
mostly discussed how they plan to
colonize outward if they stopped like
30,000 times or some insane 30,000 light
years out and they've stopped at and
founded thousands of colonies along the
way so that is the 2323 238 one um and
I'd say if you want the 6 million you
one that go house of suns by aliser re
it's a kind of unintentional uh I I I
sometimes think of that series as being
the um Fanon fan Cannon um leadup to
that story Series so um because one of
my favorite sci-fi novels but that would
be life in 2323 23 ad in Galactic
colonization Adam rat says what sci-fi
Trope do you feel is under
represented under represented U I can
tell you some ones that are over
represented um the the one planet of the
hats type thing where you go to some you
know planet or some species of alien and
they all all very much the same like
they're all Kon Warriors or they're all
uh very logical scientist EV Vulcans and
you wonder who who actually mops the
floors or you know who actually does
like I think one episode of DS9 they had
a Klingon lawyer so you're saying the
underrepresented populations are uh
those who actually do Normal book yeah
in those cases anyway and uh so that's
the plan that has the same one for the
um case be but like one city on an
entire planet and it's all the same
terrain so you go visit some planet and
as far as you might be concerned it's
just that one little town or settlement
and everything else is empty um in terms
of ones I'd love to see more of um that
I think never really gets old is any
real discussion of of the actual
civilizations day-to-day operations um
which unfortunately a lot of times are
an arthor track for what particular
ideology they happen to love or hate
they put in there but um those
explanations T to be a lot more fun for
me so exploring the actual culture of
That civilization and its history
building up that World building saying
that's thing I tend to feel really gets
missed there I don't know what Trope
that would fall under though cuz the
problem is I don't know if there is an
underrepresented uh Trope by definition
since they're usually that's they always
the cliche things people use a lot and
sci-fi has got pretty much all of them
except for the ones they all cliches in
anothera like even was it the uh the F
boy with the sword that's very Po and uh
all way back to King allor days and
fantasy already got that in Star Wars
with the lightsaber Luke Skywalker so no
underrepresent tropes come to mind the
next question is from Melody Gman could
we use dense materials found in Asteroid
33
Pol polymnia for grav
plating I get that mouthful out for
probably I'm not sure what it quite was
the W there asteroid 33 polymnia for gra
plating can you use dense materials um
you okay well I don't recall you
anything specific about that asteroid
that would have any any like Mass stock
pow of osmium in it for instance that's
the denses material I can think of up
top my head uh they're probably all some
transuranics so even dens so I'm not a
chemist so they might know to tell you
better but even then you even if you're
making a planet completely out of osmium
I think it still has to be 700
kilometers across at least to actually
present earth like gravity um and Earth
is the densest Planet actually is the
densest object in the solar system that
we know of um yeah other than some steel
ball we might have hung in space that
was a solid steel
Ball but and I'm actually might be it's
one of my list of lesso filters that
Earth's density might be putting into
its uh its Hospitality to us but um have
ability s Wasing for Hospitality too
though um the only way you're going to
get good gravity on an asteroid under
known science is with artificial black
holes um I think it would be really cool
to find out though we could generate
elsewise like unlike FTL I don't rule
artificial gravity out as one of those
things is impossible if you can take a
photon and and use it to create uh any
of the other transform Vons you should
be do a graviton too so you might have
some kind of Weir system I think what I
played around one time just for sci-fi
music was a neutrino gravitic system
that something that could absorb
neutrinos coming off a star and generate
gravity uh in the opposite direction was
just a hand wve to allow space habitats
that were Dyson swarmy looking but uh
you might have to fix you know things
like that you should be able to generate
graviton somehow without actually using
mass um so but it doesn't to viol any
known principles that I'm aware of but
other that mass and black holes or Spin
and uh spin
gravity feel flying Isaac I'm sure
you've read Dune oh yes do you think
you'll cover their technology and
culture in an episode sometime in the
future it's because I did all the ones
on on on 40K no it is actually kind of
tempting I I thought about doing a
couple quick specials when the next dude
movie came out um just kind of put
something out quickly on it but um it
would be tempting I say that uh was it
Dune end game and Foundation by Isaac as
usually win most of the polls at least
they did in the early knots and '90s for
best sci-fi series ever it was always
those three at the top and I always give
them great examples of really good
Sci-Fi that was very good hard science
fiction that was based on some really
bad science in some places um and say
for Ed game was the idea that you really
could coordinate battles with kids over
many light years but for foundation it
was always the idea that cycle history
could walk which you can't and for dune
it was the idea that a high-tech
civilization with um anti-gravity and
cheap FTL would ever have a desert
Planet as a problem since ice is the
most common substance after like
hydrogen helium so uh I used go to the
our any any place out OFA Sy probably
have tons of water and if not truck it
in you see the size of those
highlighters on there um but it's a
fantastic book series um I liked all the
original books by by F cobot though they
can get a little bit weird um uh you
like book five or book six in some
places or even book three um but uh um
some of the ones by his son and Kevin J
Anderson are good too but it kind of
varies they don't feel quite the same
feel to them you they they not the same
arth but um I would definitely recommend
it to people I think if I did cover it
though I would probably stick just the
original six books
so so 10 raay tube hey Isaac what is the
state of Art in the of the art of
nuclear fuel Recycling and what are the
hurdles right now in slowing that
development here in the United
States um maybe adress so so I would say
the first place is the to the best my
know the people doing the best recycling
usually was France they were the ones do
the best with their actual spent stuff
and there was laser separation a few
other methods going on I usually more
interested in producing additional
nuclear fuel with breedo reactors than
about recycling old fuel um um in terms
of that being a a hindrance it really
isn't you could take all those spent
fuel rods and throw them into one single
small building um that's not the if
issue there it's it's the lighter race
like right down for me per nuclear power
plant um it's i' been you know in the
sky my whole life they call the cloud
Factory locally uh they start store
their stuff in one of the they had a
second reactor they have a toon they put
all it down there but um it's all those
spent suits and things like that all
that lightly irradiated material the
need like a centry to reach NE
appropriate levels that takes up all the
space um and I don't know that that's
ever going to be an easy thing to to a
place for fuel recycling it's just about
trying to get the most money out of it
you can and uranium is actually really
cheap so I'm not sure that's the thing
holding back the industry I there
probably people who would very loudly
disagree with that um you can check the
comments I'm sure they'll pop up shortly
but I would say that for fuel recycling
it's better than it's been but it's not
to me the main thing holding back the
industry um that maybe from perception
standpoint of longterm storage I just
realized that there was a third question
oh was there okay how might nuclear
rockets work now with current
technology uh see episode the nuclear
option for full discussion but uh you've
got clean nuclear reactors where you're
just taking the you know the nuclear
fuel uh and and running that as a normal
reactor to power uh something like an
ion drive or a nuclear flash bb or um
technically even a photon rocket though
that' be really inefficient um you you
heat up your ionized fuel or just even
just thermally heat up hydrogen and spit
out the back very quickly uh that would
be your nuclear thermal Rockets um you
have an options for like open cycle ones
where you could actually produce enough
thrust to get yourself off a planet but
I think that actually T that one on
since that be spitting ractive race out
the back as opposed to a Clos Loop one
would probably not make you ever welcome
on that planet again so but they're
really quite safe in that regard it's
just I tend to think that you you can
have a good around that you have a lot
of uranium sitting on board a spaceship
as it's going through the atmosphere
it's being launched um and that because
of the nature of those rods they're very
dense they they go right through almost
anything they're not going to fall apart
if the thing blows up they're going to
go land in big chunks which makes them
easy to recover mostly um and but also
very radioactive and I think people
don't really be comfortable with a
nuclear rocket in the atmosphere so I
think of nuclear powered spaceships as
something where we take the fuel up
carefully in large chunks and then the
ships actually run running it are doing
it for you know runs between orbital
space like geostationary orbit up to the
tomorrows of the Moon not back and forth
to off so the next question makes me
laugh because do you remember when you
first asked me to look at maybe editing
some of your um scripts and I was
listening to the audio clip and I
presented you with a list of like five
different things that you said
repeatedly the first rule of warfare the
first rule of warfare the first rule of
warfare and I said you know primordial
number should have or ordinal number
should have first second third and
wining gag the the question from per
fernquist is what is the best first rule
of warfare in all of your first rules
and what would be the second now I can
answer the second go ahead the second is
always have a dry pair of socks this is
true after years of trying to figure out
what if I ever heard of a second rule
from people asking me I did actually
remember one time a sergeant told me the
second you know the second most
important thing is to always have dry
pair of socks and there was actually dry
pair of socks underwe on a little
ziplock bag I highly recommend keep you
one in your your backpack or your chunk
of your car uh in terms of the first
Wars of warfare there's only the one and
uh it's it's always the best one I don't
think I have a particular favorite of
the of the larger category of them
though I'd say maybe the uh um I say uh
don't pick on any you don't pick on
anyone your own size or smaller always
pick on someone smaller than you that's
probably my favorite one so
only fight fights you can
win Zer twerp uh thank you for your
Super Chat are you going to be attending
a public event for the 2024 total solar
eclipse and will there be an opportunity
for all of us fans to meet up uh
possibly I know my Al down south of me
which is also in the zone uh was doing
an event for that and ask me to Cobo
speak but that's very Ted they're
talking to a lot of other folks from the
area too we do have NASA Glenn right up
the road for them too so there's
probably someone in Helio physics who
would do a better job talking about the
event than me um but if I go to that one
that would be where it be at weent State
and you can look up that event as it
goes but Bing that otherwise I'll be
sitting here on my P you know Pat back
and enjoying it that way one of the
two should be an exciting day all right
uh we fit in one more here before the
break Abit hey Isaac how likely do you
think that something like the do
uh hold on I think I I might Mis be
misreading this one we'll come back to
that gerton es thank you for your super
chat from the Netherlands here hi Arthur
I'm a primary school teacher do you have
any good Sci-Fi series I could recommend
to my 10-year-old kids I'm looking for
something where the science is actually
realistic H um ex I'm kind of mentally
going through right now with those
claimers of what what might not be
acceptable for a 10-year-old I was in
trans with Douglas Adam H was gu the
Galaxy when I was 10 it was the big one
for me I don't know that that that say
all the material there was optimal for
10 year old though um and that's same
thing I'd say you could probably get
away with like 2001 biy Clark or the
foundation novels um those are pretty
solid for a 10 year old though I'm
trying to think of something that's uh
like actual young adult one um a lot of
the ones come to mind like Brandon
Sanderson and those tend to be more
aimed at a fancy audience though that he
does have a lot of crossover oh there's
going to be a bunch of people I forget
any about that I I we remember them 5
seconds after we come back from the
break so I will see if I remember them
during the
break next question what was that the
last moment okay but I'll see you guys
in about 3 minutes while we are on break
feel free to give some more questions to
the moderators for part two but one
common question that gets brought up in
discussion of space settlement are where
are the stars nearest us besides Alpha
centuri that we might find plants around
that we could tail for them as Channel
regular know I'm not a big on the idea
that we need to limit ourselves to
Yellow Suns like our own or even just
the neighboring ranges of coolor kype
orange dwarfs or the brighter F types
but to discuss them briefly there's only
one ftype star within 20 light years of
us proon alter and Cirrus which are a
type stars brighter even than F would
not be considered good candidates
normally nothing bigger than them is
inside 20 Lighty years in our upcoming
for Paradox compendium episode we'll be
discussing both percolation and Aurora
theories which generally focus on the
idea that we colonize only fairly
hospitable planets around yellow Suns
and that these in turn grow up and
colonize their own neighbors further
from Earth and I thought I'd take a
moment to explain why this traditional
somewhat Space Opera approach presents a
slightly Bleaker scenario for the fory
Paradox than it should and again I'm
obviously pretty vocal that I think
colonization won't hinge much on Stell
types or planets available but if we
were assuming it did then within 20
Lighty years the pickings are scales and
this represents a century of travel for
even the most optimistic speed and
aionion drive would achieve those gtype
stars or highest KR incidentally by name
and distance in light years Alpha
centuri a 4.37 lights tati 11.9 light
years Sigma draconus 18.8 light Yi a
copee 19.4 light Ys Epsilon Yani 19 .8
light years and Delta ponus 19.9 light
years except for Alpha centuri a which
roughly matches all Sun those all cooler
and dimmer and indeed Alpha centor B
which is on the brighter side of the K
type is closer to them than all sun is
as would be Sigma
tronus so two big quick notes you
probably noticed most of those are about
19 light years away that's semi
coincidental but space is 3D so the
population of given star is going to
sharply rise with distance but we often
use Parx in astronomy and for instance
five Parx is 16.3 Lighty years and if
you asked how many plausible stars for
colonization within five PEX you just
get Alpha centuri proon and tetti and
those first two are binaries which is
not favorable for finding habitable zone
planets particularly proon which is an
orar seven times brighter than our sun
orbited very entally by its white dwarf
companion out about with Neptune or
Pluto would be so not a good candidate
for Life numbers can be a bit misleading
in astronomy for this purpose as for
instance if you have a spaceship that
can go twice as far as Earth than a
previous model on average that upgraded
ship with double that range has 2 cubed
or 8 times as many stars to choose from
triple that range is 3 cubed or 27 times
the Stars quadruple and 4 cubed or 64
times the stars and if you can go 10
times as far 1,000 times the Stars it is
also important to remember that our sun
is not particularly representative of
how stars are spread out even discarding
Dense Star formations full of giants
finding a yellow sun with another yellow
sun within a lightyear is not terribly
rare why this matters is because this
common fory Paradox discussions to point
to only a few Stars nearby acknowledge
that A Century Of Travel is a real
effort to set up a colony especially
given they have to settle a baron rock
at the end of that Marathon not a
paradise Planet waiting for them to land
and just reason if you only got a few
candidates and some might not be viable
and each of those candidates would only
have a couple more F from them that they
could reach once they grew up and in
turn colonized themselves that efforts
to colonize the Galaxy might Peter out
very quickly and again that is entirely
possible but I feel this one is a lot
like Drake's equation we don't have a
very good idea what numbers need to be
pumped into it to match reality and here
if we assume you can only go five PX and
only colonize G type stalls you've got
two candidates one binary each with just
one or two near them besides us too
alternately I will usually include all
the stars regardless of classification
even Brown dwarfs and assume
colonization is almost always a success
if a ship arrives and assume a wider
range so I don't get two I get several
thousand each within colonization range
of several thousand themselves with wide
overlap and I only assume about double
the distance of colony ship range
needless to say this provides a very
different view of colonizing space and
one which I personally think is better
supported but time will tell and
speaking of time time to get back to the
live stream for more of your
questions F I figured out what was
making them Blinky on the screen and
unfortunately it's the computer right
behind me I thought about that I see
whole entire computer yeah it's like
three there if you go and see them there
ones with a show there's three of them
next to each other they're all liquid C
but they all Blinky um anyway so coming
back on that one the uh now that we
knows more about the panoral theory um
that's only very briefly touching on
kind of some of the concepts of it we
did end up as you notice that was kind
of a longer break for an inter Mission
we did end up expanding that into an
entire episode for January um young
adult science fiction and I feel guilty
for not even thinking mentioned this
before Robert hein's Young Adult series
the scribo series the last book of which
is either have space suit will travel
from last month oh that's fun or
Starship Troopers the book you vote
right after that stolar ship Troopers
which is the biggest classic is kind of
seen as either the first book after that
series kind of the graduating book of it
or the last book of the series with half
space suit will travel being the one
right before that the there was like 12
or 13 of them they're great and so yes
I'd recommend r with Highlands uh
young adult series of scripal well the
nice thing about longer breaks more
candy C corn and Isaac doesn't like it
so I can eat it all no I'm not a candy
corn fan I
know um I'm breaking my general rules
about corn syrup just for candy corn
fall season all right the question that
we have is AB hey Isaac how likely do
you think that something like the
butan yes the dunes larian Jihad is
likely in real life considering people
are getting wearier of AI by the day
love the channel and everything you do
so I think the Bing Jihad from Dune uh
doesn't show up in the movies it's kind
of a leftover event that that actually
is the I say the fourth series that uh
Kevin J Anderson and Brian Hobart wrote
after after Frank kot's death I think it
was the second one they did uh three
books the house tradies hoden and Corino
books and then they did the B and Jihad
ones and I actually kind of like those
but the thing is we get a description of
them in the books then we get a
description of in the duden cycop pedia
that would have been put together while
Frank was still alive and then you get
the one from the series um it said about
10,000 years before the dud no was
happen it's where they smash up all the
robots and free Humanity from those
enslaving them and it was either humans
who controlled the robots who enslave
the rest of humanity kind of that like
one of the you know people who owned all
the robots use them to enslave everybody
else scenario and others the robots are
actually the ones running the show and
that's the version that was done by his
son and Kevin janison and um it kind of
depends on which one of those we're
talking about how you would handle that
and How likely I think it is uh I can
definitely see scenarios where you would
have the people who control the robots
uh using those to oppress other people
in in the F cboard original version I
have a little bit more difficulty
Imagining the scenario that's in the
other book series where you basically
have a bunch of
cyborgs uh hijack the AI that is
peacefully running the system and it to
incension and enslaves they they use it
to enslave humanity and then it enslaves
them um but that's kind the uh you let
Pandora's Box open and now the dragons
comeing bitcher either one of them you
could happen but uh I think
that I think that I would not expect
that to be something that happen to all
of humanity in the same spot for either
case scenario because I don't see though
ever being a kind of a unified Humanity
that have just one AI that some could
hack or take over so you might have that
in one country where that happened or on
one planet uh but probably not the
entire of humanity at once that's kind
of the problem with the technological
singularities as only a danger while you
only have one planet and while you uh
might have it pop out very quickly is
otherwise you always have places that
didn't have it but have the same
technology that could you know
reciprocate if if something got out of
control so I would say I think both
scenarios are very plausible um but
probably not in a totality of humanity
kind of way unless they happen in the
next 50 years so we have uh Super Chat
don't worry about it it won't happen
till your
lifetime we have a super chat uh the
gentleman says I have autism and I often
like to retreat to the woods to read I'm
currently reading the moat in God's eye
thanks for suggesting that book yeah now
I would say um Larry Nan and Jerry pel
are both fantastic uh fantastic
fantastic authors J up passed away
though um but just fantastic and that
book a moot God's eye is or is it the
moot God's eye anyway mot God's eye is a
great book read that book it's great
it's a sequel many years later the
gripping hand is also very good and then
uh it's set in Jerry Pell's um cinium
series one which is kind of a classic
military sci-fi setting so if you do
like those it's it's definitely got a
theme very similar to uh like David web
was onor or the BattleTech ma Royal uh
setting so a good one for reading if you
if you like that type of sci-fi which I
do Owen Shaw says if you are alive
10,000 years from now where do you think
you might be living I dearly I'd still
be here on my Pharm I I kind of like the
idea of still being here you like the
new office I do I really well it's the
same office we just rearranged it we
painted The Walls by way so for those of
you whove seen the live stream before
this is normally the area that Sarah's
sitting at and it's been redone as my
office and I'm not going to show you on
the camer on the other one cuz one I
might knock the camera over and two it's
still in in movement so there's like a
vacuum ple on a step ladder off that way
camera and a few other you know Minor
Details but yes Nolan Kennedy thank you
for your super chat if timelines could
converge or Branch moving forward and if
we traveled time through backwards
couldn't we end up in different
timelines could that be a way for
explaining why reversed entropy doesn't
make sense could you give that to me one
more
time if timelines can converge or Branch
moving forward if we travel through time
through backwards couldn't we end up in
different timelines yeah um could that
be a way for explaining why reversed
entropy doesn't make sense so there
there's a number of well on that last
one that's a lot more of a theoretical
question that's going to be a little
harder to answer because it depends on
which cosmology you're working with um
and that's my coffee cup that's on
trying to feel what the white thing was
um so you have the scenarios where the
the universe just keeps branching like a
tree and that's that is one possibility
but you'll hear people say oh no that's
not what we mean uh that is one of the
options is everything just keeps
branching off but people say well what
about energy where those universe is
getting all the extra energy from um and
the answer that someone say is well they
they already exist it's just that you
have every possible state of matter uh
that the Universe could have is already
out there uh including the one where
every last atom is in some way making up
a cheese bokker um because that is a
possibility however finitely tiny that
is it's still possible and what you're
doing is kind of working your way
through the various States the universe
can be in and your personal timeline
goes that way um and and so you're not
really moving forward or backward in
time except the sense that the has a
certain size and that way your area of
time in that kind of context is um how
old the unor was you always have to take
a step forward in time to get to it now
if you can run backward in time through
that potentially too but the thing is
for any one of those given States you
could have multiple different timelines
backwards too not just forward so you
have the branching timelines forward you
also going backward too there was so
many of these theories and I I know I
tend to beat up on Multi Theory and many
wordss it's not because I think they're
bad theories per se it's just that
there's this much evidence that this
much that they actually are true and uh
there's this much evidence they're false
too but uh it's it's just you can really
get in the Weeds on which one of them
says what and what the implications are
philosophically metaphysically and in
terms of what the actual function of
time or entropy are on those and so yes
um Michael kon's time machine book I'm
trying to what it's called time
something but uh I think they actually
did a movie on it was completely
different though uh as is of case
Michael Kon books they very rarely have
anything to do with the movie they made
for them um but the one they have there
they actually are doing that they hop to
an alterate Universe where basically
that's how they did their time travel is
they're going to a universe where it's
the same one basically the same as ours
but a little bit younger so they're just
moving sideways so imagine that uh Earth
formed 500 years later but everything
else would completely the same and you
step into that universe and you
basically and whatever that would be
1523 ad which would be uh pen the E8
so source and that would be the way you
do that time travel there for instance
there's different theories for each
different cosmology though Christian
Carell has a super chat I was told that
an Orion drive would tear a solar sail
apart and a way to decelerate it is by
turning it around using RCS thrusters
Andor reactor Wheels what do you think
and doing a deceleration burn so do you
agree um it would walk uh okay so the
Orion Drive is usually assumed to be
blowing like usually The Pusher play on
the back of one of those start to be
made of uranium right so those are very
dens particles and if you or if you're
blowing off a um hydrogen B behind you
to push on a big sail um which you could
do too that that sail needs to be fairly
sty because it is trying to absorb a
nuclear bomb in as small blast as
possible um and there could to be a lot
of radiation in there but there also
going to be a lot of fragments of you
know uranium or plutonium which is about
as uh almost more penetrating as you can
get they they're very dense they perfect
for making bullets or the rip things
apart so they tend to be rough on sails
which is why you think about making the
pushup plate out of it um but uh you can
still do it that way the idea would
usually be not that you're using the
sail for that but you're retracting it
afterwards behind that so imagine my big
uranium plate right here and then you
know the bomb SC over here but then over
here we have the packaging plat where
I'm going to put the sail afterwards so
before I turn my irion drive on I'm
expanding a big graphine or aluminum
foil Sail Out and we hit that with a
laser and then when we're up to the best
speed that that laser can give us we're
going to suck that sail in wind it up
recycle bits of it need or whatever and
store it behind that Pusher plate so
that it's still helping us get some
radiation shielding or we could put in
the front the ship too for that matter
for varation shielding but it's not
actually being hit by the fragments then
you turn the urine drive on and start
blowing things up behind it and that
just gives you a little extra radiation
shiity redundancy with your sail no
matter what you do if you're doing a
40-year voyage with a thin sail like
that you're probably going to bring that
in melt it down and and recycle it and
put it back out again maybe not but that
seems like the best option it doesn't
matter it's all pucked like cheesecloth
though cuz it's it's in space it's a
vacuum space so it does it can have lots
of holes that's fine but still easier to
deploy it in match if it's not in a
horrible
shape Kristoff
Z sorry if that that's mangling your
name if you had excess energy can you
get rid of spent radioactive fuel by
spit splitting it until it's just
protons and neutrons that will Decay
into protons anyway uh no because uh
once you down the area about nickel and
ion uh the uh 56 to 60 nucleons area um
you are not you're not getting any
profitable Vision at that point you can
still cut something in half right same
as you can also fuse things that are
bigger than ions well you can't fuse
above ions go you can fuse things by you
just have to put more energy in than
than it takes that's why you want get
them out of very energetic events
they're sucking up a lot of energy to
make it there's no energy release by the
by the fusion of things heavier than
that um they are net subtractor same for
fision below that stage is you're
usually going to lose energy in the
process uh you still have decays that
like potassium Decay that's a beta Decay
that can still give off net energy but
uh that's not changing that nucleus
um sorry that's not splitting that
nucleus um so it's not fion
um you could break things down to the
proton level but it's going to cost you
energy not give you energy and that's
that's one of those things where if you
could change the laws of physics or
change a physical constant you might be
able to change things like that around
but then you probably have much better
ways to generate power at that point
than by fysal Fusion maybe El austa says
Isaac what do you think the upper limit
is on super strength enhancements on a
human without making them look inhuman
or
conspicuous um
H well it kind of depends on what you're
what you're using as the actual fake
muscle I I could mention battle Tech all
over there they had a myamar muscle
something I can't what it's called but
it was kind of an early idea of using
something other than a piston something
more like a muscle based fiber um there
there you should be able to pull off
anything do with like a piston though
inside like if you all was just one
gigantic piston you should be able to
match that with something a little bit
more elaborate like a muscle fiber but
uh you you should be able to set
something up so they would be able to
lift a car over their head um I don't
think you get them up to like the battle
tank level but uh yeah so Captain
America strength yes um while still
looking human Spider-Man strength or
Thor strength maybe not so much but um
that wouldn't be one of those scenes I'd
have to refer that to an engineer who
actually works with hydraulics cuz that
would be my default for like the the
Baseline of where you're hitting that
would be the kind of standard candle uh
you might be able to do things that were
better than that uh you might not be
able to get that level but that give you
the number and I honestly do not know
what that is but it should be it should
at least be in the low tons so now mind
you need to have that in your spine
too kind of do a whole we configuration
at that point Flor horbeck says could
gravity have emerged one dimension at a
time and then the third dimension is
inflation from a zero Dimension that
started without levels of degrees of
freedom at 0 degrees
Kelvin give you that one again
could gravity have emerged one dimension
at a time then the third dimension
inflation from a zero Dimension that
started without levels of degrees of
freedom at 0 degrees Kelvin and then
stopped before because remember when we
talk about String Theory the idea is
there were still more physical
dimensions past those three plus time um
and uh they just didn't expand they
didn't inflate um you know that
inflation again that's not proven either
I kind of emphasize that I on the yes
that probably did happen then because it
almost has to to to make sense but
there's not like exactly experimental
evidence of that either U could just
have really bad models so um there's we
really can't see anything before 4,000
years after the big bang uh because
everything was just blanketed in that
surface of last scattering you talk
about on the show and that was basically
the surface of a son um almost all of
your helium uh dates to that that first
couple of minutes too
um where was denser than your typical
stupid over blast um let's see the being
de like Suns core doesn't really matter
if something about that because Suns
cores they fuse of like billions of
years so um you got to be really Ultra
to try to
together and
um I'm trying to think how to answer
that question because I I I don't you're
going to have to ask that would be like
a Sean Caroll question I'm not going to
to answer that one for you uh maybe pole
um for that yeah know I don't see how it
could have done it one at a time like
that but it is possible that
um it's an interesting idea I'll leave
it at that I can't I can't usefully a
pine on it uh my wife is coughing for
the moment so I ask the next question it
uh Rob Hawk asks what is the best sci-fi
novel where orth is invaded by competing
alien ecology huh
um there was one I don't think it was a
novel but it it was Invasion something
or other it's it's a BBC production um
same for threshold I'll you too I TR was
called Baby Invasion or but uh there
there we do actually have alien life
forms popping up by the Earth that was a
interesting long miniseries then there's
a threshold that would be another one um
brief TV show that uh only lasted one
season and had Brent spider Commando
data from from Star Trek and um Peter
Dinklage uh from Game of Thrones but
they were the two of the scientists on
there and they were a great combination
ironically they didn't have top billing
because they weren't as well known at
that time um but uh so they they are
they part of the main team it was a
great series but there they have an
alien tesak that shows up and and
hybrids people so um and that's a very
interesting one because you get so
ecologies that that pop up associate
that from that alien planet or these
hybrid versions um or final Conflict uh
Gene rary's Earth final Conflict from
the late '90s expans a bit with that too
but in terms of alien
ecologies
uh that would be the major ones I I
would think of for that one um probably
the good ones for
that so what are the ramifications of
infinity not being real and everything
being finite well we don't know that
everything is finite um we know
everything we can actually detect as
finite I should point out you you could
never actually prove anything as
infinite either as maybe mathematically
but you can't practically produce
anything as that's uh if I'll give you
an example you got a little cord you say
this line runs from her to infinity and
say well in order to actually counter
verify that I would have to take an
infinite period of time to do it so you
can never actually verify that plus if
you going through space in a straight
line L enough or or any trajectory felt
like you would eventually reach a place
where it was so identical by random look
to the universe that you left which
would assum Chang the the meantime
anyway that you would not know if you
were a ped or not and you a pretty good
case that it wouldn't matter so you
really could never prove something is
infinite you can prove it's finite
though um but you cannot prove something
is infinite that way not in a practical
sense
um so I mean to be honest I I don't know
that we can really answer that question
properly that's like two in a row it
looks like we have about 10 or 15
questions left uh if we
go um
I know you wanted to make sure we
cleared them today so Premier says Isaac
do you think fotech like AB matter or
plank technology is possible um
realistically probably not just because
it's it's such a small scale um if you
get something like magnetic monopol is
working though or if we really Master
quarks better then maybe and if that's
so that would be an amazing thing uh in
terms of the kind of mechanical
properties those could have you have
materials that might let you you know
hold a star up or suspended by a string
that thick
yes lucky Hero 7 says how soon can you
see Humanity harvesting our
star not for several hundred years the
very earliest probably more like
thousands just because there's so many
other low hanging food and asteroids and
and unless we really grow really fast
which we don't seem to be inclined to do
you should have 700 years where we just
don't need that much resources or even
power collection um but anytime after
that cuz exponential growth is
exponential at that point you might
start saying yes let's tap this but you
might do it on other stalls instead
where you like tap neighboring stalls
and use that same process to send them
back as like highspeed batt beams back
here to mind them instead of all
son all right we have a username that I
don't think I can even pronounce hi
Isaac metal Rich asteroids are always
emphasized as the prime target for
mining but I'm curious how loose Rubble
piles might be valuable too Aggregates
as a blade of plating or just as mock
soil oil um you could the regular is
always pry useful and again there's
Metals in all these it's it's level of
density of them and what types of metals
and again there's the astronomical
definition of metals versus the the
chemical one um but uh the carbon ones
are probably going to be your most
useful in a lot of contexts now mind you
diamond and graphine which would be both
one of things to build out of or 100%
carbon that's that's what they're made
out of so the metales are most valuable
for immediate usage but the others will
probably be more valuable in the long
one FL horc says hypothetically speak
speaking you have invented a generator
that doesn't have an exhaust and is a
solution for global warming How would
you go ahead I'm assuming that means I'm
build it because I'm freaking out to be
honest but I would I build one that had
an exhaust that was that does not have
an exhaust as a solution for global
warming I mean if I had a generator that
didn't have exhaust uh I I would love to
be a trillionaire I I would love to be
able to patent that and uh you just have
my as the atho generator if you got
something that is basically peret
natural motion machine or which doesn't
have to follow the normal rules of th
Dynamics um then you absolutely should
build that though you should always POS
and ask could this have some really
horrifying side effect to which the
answer is probably yes but just a random
example I mean Sol power is an example
of something that we kind of similar to
that if if I'm reading what you mean by
that and yes do more of that if you can
it's which ones catch up economically
because a lot of times you'll spend more
energy just trying to make certain
things that are more energy efficient so
it's it's it's a complicated process
trying to weigh with the best steps on
that all but always aim for your most
efficient devices it's lesser known
thank you for your Super Chat hi Isaac
my birthday is coming up and I'm excited
to be celebrating it early with y'all
thanks for celebrating with us too happy
birthday what are some environmental
considerations of orbital Rings such as
invasive species or changes in the
weather um you know there was a a
YouTube video out that was like a a
pilot preview for a movie on over ring
and it showed this thing that had like a
base that looked like it was bigger than
a state like holding the ring up in
space around some plate that looked like
it was thousands of miles wide and we do
contemplate that as an option for
building like artificial planets but an
orbital ring around Earth would be you
know meters wide maybe one meter wide
maybe smaller than that to be with maybe
tens of meters wide when it got bigger
um maybe even a kilometer wide and you
would you would certainly see that at
night time at that point in time but for
the most part
they're not that big uh they're not
going to change the weather that much if
you keep building bigger then it's like
a build it's like saying if I build a
skyscraper what effect would have on the
weather and the answer is pretty much
none what if I build 10,000 of them and
that does change the system a little bit
right Island heat islands and cities are
noticeable effect um but for the most
part an oral ring itself is not all that
big of an impact compared to a building
of similar mass that's on this planet
and is is pretty much more direct
Shadows or wind blocks on the way uh
question from from void if a brownie and
Ratchet could actually work what would
be the societal and technological
consequences um going back to the
invasive species one before I get real
quick I think that's just a matter of
quarantine if you've got things coming
in from other planets you want to
quarantine them as best as you can um
but in of itself the O ring shouldn't
generate any major invasive species
issues unless you did like the big
sparing up cases we talked about
sometimes let you walk from one place to
another in which case you might have
things migrate along the O ring across
continents but they couldn't Swit with
fly um
so the Browning and Ratchet if if I
remember is off top of the head cuz it
really doesn't cover that much is
another one of those examples of a
device that's designed to use quantum or
or just grounding in Motion in general
which is the tiny little Ricochet of
particles to in some way power an engine
power an engine and it's kind of the
same problem with like vacuum energy is
there's energy there right but uh how do
you actually make it work so brownie in
motion uh one thing Einstein actually
stud just different size particles right
you being you got a little object that's
see in water it gets hit by a bunch of
particles on this side bunch of
particles this side it it Bobs a little
bit back and forth if you could set up
so that you absorbed all the energy that
one side was grabb you and use that for
some kind of mechanical motion um that
would obv be a good way to tap energy
because it's basic lukewarm uh
unfortunately there's no real thonic way
to make that work if you could make it
work um then you would have effectively
a way to make energy out of luk War bath
water uh which is going to violate the
laws of thermodynamics or at least if
not violate them um heavily impinge on
them and probably violate probation uh
so like anything else that does that if
you've got it and you can make it walk
congratulations your trillionaire
remember me
fondly um i i g to jump to the question
on the finances here Kent lavis thank
you for your Super Chat hello Isaac in a
civilization with cheap energy and smart
automations would it be easy to just get
rich by controlling one aspect of the
energy such as contractors or mertile um
you know if you control any large group
of of economic activity you're going to
be in a good position to get something I
power influence you know it it depends
on what the person would be aiming for
what it produces um uh so I would say
probably yes in that in that context yes
Nano says how quickly could smart matter
realistically reshape itself could we
get Terminator Style shape-shifting or
Nano scale legs mean more speed like or
more like slime so um slime more for
some things probably the most useful uh
you could do the terminat level thing
but that's not like liquid atoms bending
together that' be more like a bunch of
cell-sized machines that could rapidly
kind of flow around uh so under a
microscope it would look like a whole
bunch of building blocks moving around
on legs or flello whatever would happen
to me so that one might be viable you do
have one big issue though is you produce
heat whenever you move stuff around and
so when we think about oh we're going to
take this nanotech it's going to go
rebuild this rock say well you're busy
reforging this piece of rock into a big
carbon Diamond which sounds great you
would have released a ton of heat and
enough that you're doing that in M
seconds you set that area on fire and
destroy your Nanobots which are never
going to be temperature resistant you're
not going to make Nanobots that are able
to survive super super insanely high
temperatures they are always going to be
more delicate than something bigger made
of the same kind of materials would be
question from Nathaniel what do you
believe is the most viable solution for
long-term Moon colonization and living
in one sixth of Earth's gravity dropping
a black hole into it so you can live in
no more gravity now um we talked about
that in Moon Mega City and I actually do
like that option the best uh is is the
idea of holling the Moon out and put a
black hole in there but um I've also
always liked the idea of tform it but it
would be par terraforming uh we just
kind of glass it over and uh and fill it
with green and water inside um and that
wouldn't super leak if you got a crack
cuz the moon does have enough gravity to
hold onto air it doesn't have enough
gravity hold onto air that's been
excited in any way so it will not gush
up out of thing P other than just the
pressure issue um let's see I think that
really is the long T fate of those as we
Tor into a gigantic Mega structure of
some kind so uh as much as I didn't like
that film where they had the hollow Moon
uh recently I would say that actually is
a fairly probable scenario in terms of
the net effect that we all the moon out
used to build stuff Zachary Bush hi
Isaac if you could create matter and
energy from nothing could you create
literal magic and if you could create a
universe from scratch what would your
Universe look like uh literal magic is
kind of a hard one to put to cuz if you
go back like um you go back to a few
hundred years ago uh they stopped
believing in Magic because they thought
it was impossible before that they just
thought of as another process you could
do and so to the literal magic sence
that was really more of but with
knowledge we can do things and then we
saw find other Wings we do with
knowledge like science that basically
kind of fill that Gap um so I don't know
that you could ever make a literal magic
since the modern context the implication
magic is false um but you could
certainly make a lot of mind bending
rules on something like that if I could
make M and energy freely what would I
do tons and tons and tons and tons of
planets I would just I would Mass them
out big big Mega structures things like
that the biggest I could possibly make
it as many of I could that would be what
I would do so Rob
surprise Rob Hawk thank you for your
Super Chat what is the best sci-fi novel
where earth is invaded by a competing
alien that one while you up oh
sorry feel flying if you had a chance
would you try some mange space from
Spice from
Dune uh well mange has known side
effects uh it can let you see the future
it lets you age slow and be in Better
Health and turns you your gigantic
mutant warm
so yes I I would absolutely take the
spice Mage if I could it it's extends
life and let you see the future how
could I say no to that one personally um
but uh I think that that book does
really handle the ramifications as them
not necessar being a good thing very
well so I'd recommend reading do and
seeing why for Sight it's not necessar a
good thing to have but I think I would
definitely be the PO I would definitely
grab that if I could so yes and the last
one I have at the moment is from the
cause thank you for your Super Chat do
you think that AI will be able to
predict the future in coming years maybe
even as well as you do uh I could hope
it does I don't really think of myself
as predicting the future I think of
myself kind of following logical Trends
down so you cannot predict the future no
matter how good your AI is you cannot
predict the future with any machine
built inside the universe that's just
how that works um for one thing you're
going to seriously alter it just by
thinking the heat you give off from your
computer engine was going to warm things
up for instance and change the weather
but you cannot predict these things like
people think um the complexity to back
calculate trajectories of individual
particles and things like that even
without factory in Quantum starts Rising
really fast exponentially so even a
computer as big as the universe would
not be able to exactly calculate what
every molecule is going to be so that
perfect prediction the future not going
to happen flip side that though can you
predict Trends yes I can predict the
weather decently right um not very well
person but meteorologists can do that we
can predict where or Mar are going to be
in the future and predict how someone's
going to react if he you know put their
hand towards their face they might
Flinch or any number of other things
that should be possible to do and I
think a computer probably could do that
fair well but not put any human could do
and so in that regard yes I think we
could predict the future pretty well and
um say be time for another question
before is going
out I think that was power all last
question so with that very good music
going off in the background of whatever
that is new phone new craziness new
studio uh as a reminder we are not
having a live stream next month and then
we will be having one for December 31st
and that will be our last one for at
least a few months after that if not
longer we're we on Hiatus for the spring
for the live streams though we'll be
replacing that with no more episodes for
the while too so anyway thank youone for
joining me for this is live stream
number 59 our next one will be live
stream 6
for December 31st 2023 and we will see
you all then and we'll also see you all
back here on Thursday for episode which
I believe is Rebel space colonies
followed by the for Paradox compano
Solutions which is 3 hours and 10
minutes long and we will see you all
then for those thank you for joining us
for another monthly live stream if we
missed any of your questions feel free
to put them in the comments on the
episode and we'll see you on Thursday
but if you don't want to wait you can
check out any of this month recent
episodes or see our bonus content over
our nebula at go.
