Cosmic inflation often gets confused
with a big bang but is a short period
hypothesized to have occurred roughly 1
trillionth of a trillionth of a
trillionth of a second after the big
bang and lasted somewhere between 100 to
1,000 times longer than that near
infinitesimal moment though is still
much longer than a plank time what we
think is the smallest possible unit or
division of time and where inflation
would have started around 10 million
plank times and persisted to 1 to 10
billion of them that time is still so
small though that had the volume of
space expanded at light speed during
that time it should have been a billion
times smaller than the nucleus of an
atom whereas we think it needed to be
beach bar size by then to have allowed
the current state and arrangement of the
absorbable universe and Cosmic inflation
was the theory proposed by Alan GTH in
the 1980s to account for that
