a mushroom habitat is a concept
developed for the episode colonizing
Mercury for use on aess Wards close to
their stars and blasted by intense
sunlight a mushroom Hab use a large
reflective umbrella shade that can be
placed over a habitat which is so stands
above the ground on top of thermally
insulated stilts resembling a mushroom
this allows the habitat to remain cool
even on WS like Mercury the umbrella may
also be used for power collection the
habitat can include spin gravity
features to allow for higher gravity if
the world has lower surface gravity than
desired the reverse form of this is
where a habitat has a parabolic dish
behind or underneath it to concentrate
sunlight on dimmer and cordal walls
either version allows comtal human
habitation on planets that makes the
Sahara Desert look cool and Antarctica
look warm for more space habitats we
might make in the future see the mega
structural compendium
