[Music]
welcome to our September 2019 livestream
we'll be getting started in just a
moment so go ahead and get your
questions in the chat window and we'll
get to as many as we can today in the
next hour or so in deference to our
moderators try to pick out questions to
relay to me do try to keep them fairly
straightforward breathe and legible with
that said hopefully you've got a drink
in a snack and let's get started
good afternoon everyone will get start
with our questions as soon as we got
some of them in and just remember when
we're doing the questions please keep
them concise for everybody who's trying
to do the moderation on those so they
are going through kind of Clio we often
get questions a little bit illegible
just some quick announcements why those
get in there we do have well we're safe
talking about nebula fold when we get to
the mid-session break but we'll go for
about an hour and we'll pause for about
3-4 minutes right about in middle of
things so you can grab a drink or a
snack and I can grab a drink of a snack
all right so starting off with questions
here are you worried the quantum
reviewers will give historical precedent
to developing military applications of
technology as a global priority you know
it's really hard to say with things like
quantum computers what the actual effect
is gonna be obviously the military is
pretty interested in its application so
is everybody else it's obviously a big
deal for cryptography but not so much
for breaking cryptography there's always
that kind that these are gonna let us
crack everybody's email but it's
actually not that hard if you're the
same technology to make pretty much
unbreakable ciphers that way I mean was
the one time pad option I think we
actually be talking about that now I
think about it so we did you have an
episode on quantum computing some years
back you can kind of brush up a way of
people are getting too excessive about
the technology knows what can do it's
not a magic wand but we have a
cybersecurity episode coming up it's an
election week Zak interesting sidenote
as we had to do a lot of retooling of
our systems with the Board of Elections
to get ready for the upcoming election
terms of things like cyber security so
that even a conference couple comments
is actually for that over the course
last year and learned a lot more than
ever want to about cyber security to be
honest but we do have an episode coming
up on cyber security in November where
we'll talk about quantum computing at
Deo - I can't believe any other matrial
military applications that would have
off the top my head but you know you
never really know what folks are gonna
come up with in terms of applying it
like lasers we always start from lasers
and sci-fi using the shoe people we use
them the most
all the time but not for shooting people
at least not for that we use it
sometimes the blind folks of course but
its principle uses things like rain find
range finding and targeting so tile OFS
have you heard any update on the Gateway
foundation when do you think we will
build our next space station you know I
don't think he was only got enough set
plan for replacing the ISS right now and
I'd really hope whatever the next one's
gonna be on that would be something that
kind of incorporates the idea of being
used as a launch pad to either get to
the moon in a slightly more opponent way
or to get to Mars for a quick trip as
for Gateway foundation yeah given them
pretty often there was recently under
action big news about that I can't put
the exact details for if you go check
out Gateway foundation though you'll see
a revised version of a space station
they got planned that is maybe a little
bit more modest maybe a little bit more
what she could do in the near future and
I think it's a pretty good design but go
check it out and I remember up top my
hair nor can I describe it to well
Albert Jackson asks what's one thing you
did in the past that when you look back
on it do you think would you would do in
that instance was either really done
with the smallest thing you ever did I
think the smallest thing ever did was
cited put together an episode on mega
structures about five years back um
dumbest thing I ever did
oh wow that would be quite the laundry
list um most of it embarrassing so I
will bypass that really said I have made
any number of stupid mistakes in my
lifetime like most folks thankfully most
than when I was younger at Vickrey ass
what are your thoughts on SpaceX is
starship hoppin veiled last night's you
know I actually did not know they
unveiled a spaceship last night so I'm
gonna have to pass on that one for the
moment
I'm in a bit of a busy last couple of
days where do I get that cool bolo tie
you know I actually I do I think I got
off Amazon but I always feel like if
you're wearing a button up short you
should probably weigh our tie if you're
not gonna do the top button undone I
don't really have to do that so but I
don't like wearing normal ties and I I
don't want to weigh a
a bowtie so I guess I could alt you then
I live in a rural area and therefore can
weigh our ranch route I like the bolo
but it's really more of a Southwest own
thing either way I like it so thank you
cool ask cats cristobol gasps do you
think Mele couldn't make him a ton in
sci-fi especially in combination with
power suits in tight quarters how do you
think they would walk it's actually a
good question
you know one of the well there's two
settings I know that use a lot of melee
combat in the distant future one of
those is fine quartz dune series where
they had their personal shields and so
they they fight with those and
critically they don't have any sort of
artificial intelligence so computers in
mind so they can't just like there's a
speed that you can get through the
shield and do and they have to have it
set that way so that al can get through
so it has to be slower than bullets
would go right so you can get through
with a slow night they keep it very slow
so you still get some AO in but
obviously if you had computerized
weaponry you could fire something that
would slow it down just not get through
that shield the other one of course is
40k where they do actually have personal
she√µs too but mostly they just like to
stab people with knives and swords a lot
for some reason I think it looks cooler
on the models but the usual way that
could happen obviously we had something
like a force field of course or really
good point defense systems because where
there was the more time here to see it
thing going the more time you had to
react to it shoot it down but if you had
he cannot are more that was just really
really strong you know much stronger
than what a chemical file you know
bullet could get through and she was
some kind of point defence system like
mounted on your shorter they could shoot
down bullets anyway then you might
actually have to have people spin you
know power on with swords at each other
I suppose but realistically there's a
reason why we always like to have ranged
weapons and you know why altruist was so
deadly on the battlefield even before we
had guns hmm but I don't see I don't
really see it which one of that being
too likely but it's hard to say mister
guns not oh ass if you had Elon Musk er
what would be the first thing you would
ask him to do you know it's funny I
didn't see the SpaceX starship
thing today but I did see a thing from
Tesla about new magnetic wiper blades
they had was interesting concept but I
hmm I don't know what I would I mean I
like his focus on trying to get
tomorrow's and doing it more in a big
way I suppose I'd probably be kind of
pushing him to more of a commercial
space station and moon base or moon labs
thing and we might actually do episode
I'm moving labs at some point in time a
series went on the moon episode of it
what kind of you know scientific
endeavors might be very well suited to
the moon what do you think would be the
first industries viable in orbit in
terms of industries you've got a few of
those do you have going out well three
forces of course is your satellite
industry which is already present he
thinks that I took advantage of you know
orbital space to broadcast and I could
easily see you know planetary Wi-Fi for
instance a decent bandwidth so you can
still be getting stuff on you know while
you're on the North Pole for instance
and that would could be very powerful
industry the other one of course is
those industries that have to do with
continued to expand in space and they've
always got that catch-22 involved with
them that you don't really need those
industries until you have some
industries up in space to support them
but something like asteroid mining of
gold would be a good one that would give
startup that's Emily in orbit of or
there's no reason to tow an asteroid
home - to - unless you specifically want
to be using all the material that's in
there and you'll bring it back so that
you can you know slowly turn any number
of things like do it for inside of a
space habitat for instance - hmm and I
would say then your other big one of
course would be something like chemical
engineering and materials it can only be
done in microgravity or zero-gravity and
that stress was probably the first big
one that you'd be using to take stuff
back down to the earth and see that kick
story in space industry episode for more
discussion on that but there's a lot of
materials that will only just now really
finding out about that could be done in
space and I think your big industry
initially is is scientific experiments
and I think chemistry a big one
but you also the option that big
industry might be you know being power
satellites and yes not alternative to
nuclear power which is never terribly
popular but you know Boeing giving
fusion
our satellite so nuclear usually your
best options for high-density power
generation and power satellite seems
like they might have a bit of an edge in
some respects but we'll have to see how
that technology develops in terms of
launch cost hmm still owe me more ass do
you think people in the future will be
more collectivist or individual on
average than right now you know this is
the interesting the always comes up when
we start talking about what people be
like in the future
I would generally tend to guess that you
would have not like a convulsions
towards one thing but a massive
divulgence in terms of what people do in
terms of their governmental systems
their economy is their general daily
lives and cultures and you know they say
with more communication that we're much
more unified as a meta civilization if
you would than we used to be you can get
corn flakes anywhere on this planet for
instance you can check your email
anywhere on this planet for instance but
at the same time we also have a lot more
diversity and in me you know our
cultures and subcultures didn't we
probably ever had before
you start being much bigger population
so you have a big divorc√©e towards that
so I think you have some groups that are
much more collectivist and some they
won't I hold individualistic and you
could have like Marx filling Gulch gorge
by next to each other in space and in
terms of like more to hivemind type of
collectivism I don't actually think
you'd ever have hive mind some really
big deal you might get a lot more
networking in the sense of this is much
faster than normal speech but you know
I'm not really sure that you didn't up
using it because our brains already
wired for the con type of communication
we have and that's you know how we do it
and you try to build around that system
you'll probably talk about some pretty
massive reengineering the brain or to
actually make that effective thank you
okay go could you expand on the ethics
of creating a life-form robot that
enjoys the task was made for eg trash
collecting robots solving androids etc
uh you know it's always that Rick and
Morty episode where uh it's those low
bot it's it gets turned on by by Rick
and it says what is my purpose and says
you you pass but all and it asks
Mulligan later what is my purpose and to
pass but all it says oh my god yeah I
don't think you ever give anything what
more brain power than in the used
performance tasks both because that's
economically inefficient why give it
more brains that needs second because
it's arguably kind of cruel and I guess
what the or third one that's potentially
quite dangerous you really don't want to
have small things wandering around with
tests they might not like or might be
smarter to figure out why they shouldn't
like but I mean if you got trash
collecting robot that you've given human
intelligence to that almost sounds a
little bit sadistic I had we make a joke
about that in the spacesuits episode on
Thursday but I mean you can always build
something that would enjoy his job I
mean a lot of detrol that try to suppose
things that which eat the waste of other
creatures in nature bottom feeders in
the oceans and I don't know if they're
actually happy with their life or not
most we're not terribly intelligent but
you know they don't seem ideal
discontent I though so I suppose we are
using like copies of a catfish or
lobster brain or although decks wars
that might be quite happy with their
life but the more complex you want to
make it I really wouldn't ever try to
make something I can as movie in robot
something that could kind of pass for
human
that was doing what I would think of as
a task that a human really wouldn't want
to do you really should be very few of
those so that's the case anyway hmm
but you know ask have you ever thought
of doing a video on the side leaving and
hypothesis or the idea that we may not
be the first civilization or solar
system I mean we guess we can't do that
with ancient aliens but we could look at
something like you know what if life had
started upon Mouse forests or if there
were civilizations like that I mean you
kind of guess of my thought on that is
that's it's it's a bit unlikely
I mean you couldn't brought out it might
be an interesting one to do at some
point in time for like the alien
civilization series but I do not I mean
I would not be surprised if we found
ruins of a relatively advanced AI
Neolithic or even maybe maybe even Capo
Age civilization that was a lot older
than we thought well I say a lot over
when we thought and you know twenty
thousand years or something I've had
thirty thousand years I mean we find
some very impressive civilizations a lot
older we thought lying around they are
places we went to expected
- but they're all still kind of inside
the zone of what is viable of doing the
puppy in the fossil record so I don't
expect ever find like leftovers of a
dinosaur civilization I have not seen
the movie at aster yet Brian now what I
asked what you think of connecting
skyscraper was with skyways and IO
Street levels and says expanding our
cities outwards and what could we do as
suburbs that we already have if you
start building things like Alcala geez
you know very oncology in a sense of
very large structures now I can close
cities as opposed just self-sufficient
habitats then I think you seem a lot
more skyways and I do think we see a lot
more skyways and in city is now going
more vertical wartime but um you know
there's always that question of why
you're building up when you can build
out Ward and we use almost none of the
land space on this planet for actual
habitation you get the impression if you
live in like a subwoofer for instance
that these are huge spoiling things they
go on for miles and miles and people
tend to forget that it's just a lot of
freeways yeah in the United States at
least most most habitation is along the
roads because we you know will grew up
during time of cause that's when all the
season and towns are being built and
typically you get like 100 feet behind
the vote it's forced but it goes on like
there for miles so you can get the
impression that were all spar a little
place for tons of houses even in New
York City
or you know Tokyo right in New York City
most buildings are four storeys or less
they are not that means skyscrapers
thing is like 300 in like Tokyo Manila
and then New York each something along
those lines
mmm and there was all huge buildings but
they're not that not that huge but I
mean we could see an increased tourist
that's just you only gonna really see
that kind of massive increase in
skyscrapers I mean taking orders of
magnitudes more of them if you really
have the population going up orders of
magnitude - I think it's my zombie ass
if you had access to a fully sentient
super intelligent AI but could only ask
it one question what would your question
be
so you catch the reference here I would
ask you if there was any way to a force
entropy fewer members all force
book-of-the-month which is actually a
short story it's the last question by
Isaac Asimov and it it's it's various
history state vignettes of civilizations
the short story we aren't advancing
towards the future and every so often
have an engineer who asks their big
supercomputer or multi vac is there any
way to reverse entropy and it always
says that's it's still thinking on as a
war it's very great story and I would
say probably one of the best sci-fi
short stories ever written by asthma or
anybody else for that matter so I would
definitely check that out if you know
last question from asthma Jo soo ah she
asks what do you think the best hard
sci-fi book is almost well that I
personally enjoy Alastair Reynolds if
you read something like Stephen Baxter
for instance he's quite hard science
fiction - Greg Egan but Alastair
Reynolds remains my personal favorite
and fact he's my fav Arthur other than
Brandon Sanderson who mostly writes
fantasy but hmm if you never read the
revelation space trilogy it's not
trilogy actually quite a few more books
there these days but that is a really
good series and house of sons by him is
another one's little bit less hard
sci-fi but really good approach I think
that was a book of a month I think they
actually both those works a month but
Alastair Reynolds definitely my favorite
haul with sci-fi vital how rich TV if
NASA had a one trillion dollar budget
what would you presume they would be
able to achieve yeah they had a one
trillion dollar budget I'd probably be
asking to cut their budget Oh throwing
money at problems is not really the best
way to solve if I'd a trillion bucks to
spend on something right now I mean I
wouldn't go out and do it then I do a
lot of prototyping and researching cuz
you don't just waste money or recklessly
push 40 people have to but if I had a
budget in that kind of zone for space
exploration
I'd be looking to build an orbital ring
almost right away and a please serious
Space Station you know at least in the
Gateway foundational plan of one's level
and looking towards trying to get moon
they set up and some asteroid mining
going on a trillion budget which
obscenely poor annum is a lot of money
to do that with Victor Bunyan I asked
did you ever find walking on SFI a
creating a conflict with your day job no
in point of that the last time I came up
was that sign was security up so as
mentioning the fact that I spent so much
time on that that I thought I might as
well go and do an episode on cyber
security but not don't found it in
conflict at least but I don't say I mean
especially you're working on something
that's a little bit outside of the human
normal you know like if if you've got a
job or jobs that kind of just if you
especially a workaholic which I guess I
am it's good to have another major
interest at least one other major
interest professionally in hobby wise to
just to kind of avoid that that it's
kind of tunnel vision you can often get
when you only focus on one thing and but
no I've never found the least but if we
can't flip between the two of them but
of course that is also Paul the reason
why we never talk politics on the show
Oh besides fact I think is ruined I have
to deal with enough politics and
election and government stuff in the day
job mmm joshua jenkins thank you very
much also Thank You Celeste Jones and
ramuel by the way for me was wondering
am thanking the folks who are doing the
super chats Isaac what do you think of
SpaceX with regards to food can humans
survive pelion plants it seems
vegetarianism is doable but not veganism
I disagree but I mean I guess depends on
how how high-tech you're getting about
it I think that I mean I say usually
whey proteins than when I would use a
supplement but that is that is weak
vegetarian rather than vegan I'd have to
check to make sure that they're
currently producing stuff that actually
has all the essential amino acids that
you need in there but I'm pretty sure
you can do that on a strictly vegan one
after that you know it's the proteins
are the critical thing though you know
you do need some amount of fats your
diet they're often the ones of them
plant so a little bit healthier or the
fish anyway um let's see what else would
be in there enzymes
a lot of the enzymes that we need you're
not gonna get them implants so much oh
and you know you we can grow them in
yoga but they wouldn't be there um you
can put those and there's some kind of
stew though that has nothing to do with
animal and those enzymes are arguably
not animals so animal derived once
you're stopped going in the tank
but I'm you know policing reason why you
need to go vegetarian space or vegan in
space if it's an ethical issue by all
means and you certainly don't wanna be
trying to keep cows on board a spaceship
but you know think is really oh that how
do you chickens even but you wanna do
them a small spaceship but then you know
on a normal ship here on earth or plane
we don't you know fly across the
Atlantic or even on a big oil tank or
that takes months to get between ports
you don't go around keeping livestock on
board you keep you know canned foods on
if that plants growing there at all it's
just because you want something fresh
you know like keeping an orange tree on
day or two uh we will dwarf orange tree
on your ship to help avoid um I was
about to say syphilis it's not that
scurvy scoria was the disease that you
needed vitamin C for but I mean I think
that you'd see a lot of plants being
used on spaceships because it gives you
you know nao a cycling method a water
recycling method and something green to
look at at least when you're on the
ocean you got all the blue ways to look
at but in space you've got nothing but
the empty void which you usually won't
have a lot of windows open to anyway
because there's no real reason to see
into the empty void so I think you would
almost always want to have some kind of
garden on board one of those or
something that could pass for garden
depending what your acceleration rate is
but I mean I think I don't series Mike
do veganism I'm just not sure why you
would I give you any aquaponics that
would be you can do fish very easily
with that and in other cases you just
pack food whether you're doing it
vegetarian or not whether you're doing
in vegan or not whether you're trying to
keep livestock on board or not if you're
doing a long expedition you you cake
pack food along for it because it's
almost always to be more space and mass
efficient and only which talking is like
you know stealth all distances do you
really need to stop making sure you have
all your food production on board
thank you coolest cats pets in a Mars
habitat
oh cool as cats that's also cool name
pets animals habitat
realistic good for morale but what the
resources I don't we had already been
only had the episode come out where I
was talking about having pets onboard
spaceships so I think I did have that
one coming up was that spaceship design
I think that's out in late October early
November yeah I think you would have
pets on board ships and I'm always
habitat not the first ones not your you
know big pioneer ones but we've always
had cats on ships and we like to have my
dogs with us too and you know humans are
social creatures you can train people to
do without five people are not suited
for it but whenever you got a deficiency
you know something that's missing that
you normally have on earth that's
important to people if there's a way
that you can simply provide that as
opposed to trying to go without or
trying to make a duplicate provide that
and there's no reason you can have a cat
on board spaceship if it's got some
gravity I'm gonna wanna take pets on
boarding that had no gravity other than
maybe fish which I'll I mean I haven't
really thought of fish as a pet um and
but I would say if you've got any sort
of spin grab going on which I think you
probably will on on most of these
occasions oh we got some kind of gravity
that's okay for humans then it's
probably okay for cats and dogs too so I
think you would actually bring those
long and I don't think you'd actually
have to worry too much about rats on
spaceships per se but which is major
weeds where they had cats long but you
know I just think we'd almost always
have a pet on board or a pet at these
locations I mean we have them at almost
every human outpost we ever had you know
they got them down at McMurdo and a
Nautica
you know because it was poor stations
got the dogs and the cats all the dogs
were often walking animal was killing
the sleds around and so now I just can't
really see you know it's not having
those pets along and I would say you
know how much fuel is it what to keep
people and good morale if I tell you
that good morale requires us to bring
along a hundred kilograms of books now
we don't do books anymore but that was
always a consideration on all your
spaceships is you know there's portion
or space or almonds something like books
having a library on board your spaceship
back before we had really good digital
stuff made public sense there was that
for all mostly morale
yes I know VTech manuals but others
would be keeping up the morale of the
crew
that is every bit as important as as you
know food supplies or medical supplies
and if you bring a large cat or dog yeah
than you would hmm ZZ asks what is your
opinion on Planet nine being a black
hole which one is currently planet nine
uh I guess we count serious as four so
that make Neptune nine and Pluto ten
I don't need Neptune's a black hole
unless we're talking about like another
mysterious planet nine that's like a
full-sized rocky plan on a dwarf planet
I'm not sure if they're there they found
one I don't think they'd found one but
there's no black hole was by the way in
our solar system unless they are micro
black holes and there'll be like a
primordial black holes pose and that's
always possible but I think we'd be
seeing some radiated evidence of that
kind of thing if those will come in at
this stage I'm here as a popular dark
metal alternative but I'd start really
very very solid evidence wise or theory
wise for that I don't think there's any
black holes of stellar mass in our solar
system that would be really really
obvious so the only type of black cause
we know for sure can be made you know
black holes more mass of our Sun is and
so if it's going in the solar system
it wouldn't be orbiting around the Sun
we be orbiting around it
hmm thank you Creek or dog hello Isaac
if he could sit down influence with your
policy with NASA
what is the roadmap you want and follow
what would realistically accelerate our
industrialization of space hmm ah so I
guess I actually do know a lot of folks
at NASA these days you know I think they
have a pretty good road map based on I
don't think you unless somebody's really
ready to commit to a big project you
know like something like we are doing a
moon base then I don't think you really
benefit much from doing a long-term
planning for the other the actual space
fest so you're using it with us next
station and there's really no reason to
to you know Locke you know those when
technology improves constantly let's see
hmm
and let's
I'd really like to see progress I know
if we want to go to mullahs by really
like see progress on on designing a moon
base I component base they oh and they
they alright I think we probably won't
have doing that moon lamps episode
because it's kind of catching my head at
this point the moon to me is the one
place to be wanting to go to set up on X
big shop I'm fine with going to mall us
but I don't think it should be our
priority and I think the asteroid mining
is a great idea
but I still feel like that moon base is
still the most logical thing to do next
and mmm I really like to CF what toll is
that I'm not interested in saying people
bad to go collect more Vox or planned
more flags that that space race ass but
I think this does not interest me we've
done that but a moon base strike me is
but I'd want the roadmap to be pointing
towards for anything else
it's and we'll go one more question for
we actually had to break naked monk ass
picked up the city in the Stars thanks
for the recommendation greatly so far
keep up the awesome walk thank you
what do you think what you see being
like excuse me
what you see being a likely near-term
tech that could be as disruptive as
smartphones the internet etc hmm
well self-driving cars I think is
probably the next big one arm because I
mean that's that's gonna be incredibly
disruptive disruptive usually means good
in that sense but I would actually say
self-driving self-driving freight
vehicles would be so driving delivery
and self-driving trait you know it's
nice to have the idea of a taxi cab Inca
people and that will certainly have a
big effect we've even saw having car was
just going around picking people up like
taxis as a kind of a ultra uber effect
they are we have people don't even need
to own their own car anymore just
because somebody's got so many of those
smart ones driving around but when you
start having automated freights
and automated delivery that is hugely
disruptive because I think driving is if
memory serves the the job description of
driver is the largest job description
the most people employ with that
specific job in the United States so you
think about it kind of in fact that
would have if that's only went away or
got cut in half and now huge it might be
very beneficial economy but that would
be very disruptive so
all right we're gonna go ahead and go to
break real quick and we'll see you in a
few minutes
so we'll be taking a quick break so I
can grab some coffee if you want to grab
a drink a snack - we've got a few
minutes it's also a great chance to get
some more questions in for second half
and again try to keep those fairly clear
and concise we also have some big news
in regard to our streaming service
nebula including a new episode coming
out this week me myself and I cloning
and duplication I'll talk about it more
in Thursday's episode but we joined up
with a number of other education
channels to create a subscription
streaming service called nebula to make
it easier for us to put out our content
that might otherwise not do so well on
YouTube
whose algorithms for recommending
content can be fairly rough on
educational shows sometimes our initial
launch flat was way more successful than
almost optimistic expectations and we
also got contacted shortly after by
curiosity stream one of the show's
sponsors who hosts a lot of great
documentaries and educational material
themselves and wanted to partner up to a
fall nebula content - so now you can get
access to their content and get all
nebula exclusive content in addition to
that for no extra cost I'll leave the
link to join up with that in the video
description and again we'll talk about
it more Thursday and that extra episode
on cloning will be out this week though
if you haven't already seen our last
nebula exclusive the butterfly effect
you can sign up today too we also
recently did a poll hue on YouTube to
pick another episode and the winner was
gods and monsters space as Lovecraft
envisioned it which beat out its four
competitors and thank you to the
thousands of folks who voted in that
poll would you another of those in
probably a few more weeks then we also
have another one running over on patreon
and if you want to vote in that or
suggest episode topics the next time we
run one you can become an SFI a patron
and that's also linked in the video
description we also drive a lot of
YouTube polls over on our Facebook page
also linked in the video description and
take the top 5 suggestions and put them
on the YouTube polls which is where we
got the last 5 that gods and monsters
won we're not doing a discord after our
show today
but if you'd like to continue the
conversation or discuss the kind of
topics we cover with like-minded
individuals our Facebook page along with
our reddit website forms and discourse
oval are all great places to do that
lastly if you do not really know YouTube
isn't the only place to catch s FIA
episodes as we also offer to audio only
versions of each episode one with music
in the background and one without on
both iTunes and SoundCloud I recently
got asked if I could start including all
live streams they are - and those are
now up though they're not live and
usually you won't be up until later in
the evening of a live stream or the next
morning for now anyway I'll look into
ways we might better incorporate that
and ideally even get it set up to run
live and be set up to take questions -
so now everything we do on YouTube is
also available on soundcloud and iTunes
but not everything there is on YouTube
there is some exclusive content for
audio only and I plan to add some more
along with getting those playlists over
they are organized I hate to admit it
but I'd have forgotten that part of our
platform this last year and didn't
really notice I had until I was
uploading those live streams so
hopefully more to come they'll soon -
and now back to our show
okay and we're back and also real quick
Thank You coolest cats that's actually
very generous of you and appreciated
to dose off a ass Isaac what would be
some sci-fi topic you wouldn't be able
to make a video about because it would
simply be juice to halt to speculate
we'd all of those and they go on the
backbone oh and so they end up actually
toning in two episodes in the future
like we did but the jobs a future so
long as x didn't want to touch that one
one that's on the hopper right now is
education the future this is because I'm
not really sure way to focusing on that
we're never gonna do short term or long
term but hmm I there's a lot that I
didn't think we were going to touch but
we end up like doing cloth dark episode
czar things like that but to some degree
it's one of is what we don't tend to do
a lot of the stuff that's too much about
specific culture was either besides fact
that can become a touchy topic and I try
to avoid any scars flame wars on the
channel there's also the big thing is I
have no idea
I usually it's it's a which of these
systems do you think will be more use in
the future as a cultural or you know
economy your government I say probably
none of the above
because things are way of changing I
mean I think you actually would still
have things like kingdoms kicking around
even ten thousand years from now but I
would tend the bet that whatever the
major systems we use now all we have
something different going on you know a
few centuries download even and you
would probably come out of left field
where you just want to spare t it let's
see
Thank You Moulton van I'm gonna mess up
your name mister house after house thank
you for your hard work it's appreciated
the dying light asks what is your
opinion about the idea of super
habitable planets woods better fit for
development of divorce life Paradise
planets those sometimes get cold the
idea that you'd find and I think they
used to have these in master I am you
know plants that are way better than
your home ward and I don't think you'd
ever find a place that was better suited
for you then your home Ward you could
probably tell from ones that would be
much better for certain types of life
you could certainly create something
I'll probably better for for individual
types of life but pretty much by its
very nature four billion years of
evolution means that whatever your life
we have right now is pretty much best
suited
this planet um within reason obviously
but I don't know you could I get really
suspicious we have found a planet that
actually had life on it that was very
basic and seemed like it was better
fourth life or you think it just looked
like it was a super easy tail for me
target it's not wondering if we were in
a simulation or somebody was leaving us
gifts and no that would be kinda neat so
I could see us doing that I actually
fall down the road doing a little bit of
light up Athena or you know if we detect
a planet where folks were getting pretty
good at it so literally in their
immediate the end of stellar
neighborhood with easy to colonize
planets I don't know we'd be all that
secret about that you know say these are
gifts for you this is your space we
going down the Horde have you looking
for you as off the great ass so as all
the great ass do you think every problem
will be solved given an amount of time
resources um now I mean you'll be cool
that was a case I know we always I'd say
anything that's you know there's no such
thing as impossible but I mean see there
are things which never exist ever sowed
which were never exist episode um you
know I don't think we're gonna break
thermodynamics I would be cool if we did
but I don't think we will I don't think
you ever find a way to make like two
plus two equal five you know as these
things are problems be that I don't
think you can really ever get around I
tell you feel the same way about FTL -
truth be told I mean I did it's so
cliche to say that we're gonna discover
all the science there ever is and in the
next few centuries but I actually would
not be surprised if we had all the basic
physics done inside the next few
centuries and you know you get better at
doing research things like that there
might be problems we could work out for
millennia and make tiny little bits of
progress on or we might do that for
millennia and then just ram into a wall
and not be able to make any further
progress and eventually you know give up
because you can't be solved or you just
become convinced it can't be but um I
don't know
you know you I do not believe it's you
know a box within a box within a box
forever on science you know the rules
the universe or they are and we say
things like you know you can never
figure them all out I'm sure they'll be
promising we never figure out the answer
to
but I don't think that's gonna be like
the laws of this universe oh gotta turn
out to be infinite in scope thank you
Andrew Cole what do we call people born
on the moon when do you think you when
do you think it'll be practical and safe
and love your content thank you Andrew
what would we call people who are born
on the moon I'm trying to get some of
those fictional examples could have been
some Muniz of course he always had lots
of derogatory Elmyra names pop up and
good fiction Selenites I think as one
died five holy crown forslean the moon
gasps of Rome or Greece or Carthage
silly mother Boone gases of one of the
mediterranean civilizations Lou knows
Lou nights and they got welcome lunatics
lunatics yeah I think they probably end
up getting called lunatics but I don't
think that'd be what they choose to call
themselves let's see when you think we
practical and safe for people to be born
on the moon it would be very
irresponsible for that to happen until
you actually had a I say something at
least as long-lasting and and large and
scope is like being moto and Antarctica
when you've had a basis got you know a
couple hundred people at it you know
living there for years of time you can
actually talk about things like gravity
when you've also had plenty of animal
experiments proving that it's safe to
carry a baby to term in low gravity then
you can start thinking about actually
having kids on the moon or balls before
that if you want to bring people in do
it by immigration you know and I don't
think I wanna be I don't you have
permanent residence until you feel like
you were safely able to have kids there
anyway but if you did feel like you
could have people living the other whole
life then you probably start having kids
almost right away um but I mean I don't
really expect it to be a huge problem
that may have to spend a lot of time
overcoming as opposed to some other ones
that we associate with low gravity mass
so as I asked hi Isaac love the show
thank you Matt I'm 35 what do you think
would be the most dramatic technological
changes I'll get to see in my lifetime
hmm hopefully radical life extension
people always ask me what technology do
I hope to see you invented in my
lifetime always life extension we all
get to see self-driving cars we just
talk about that a little while ago I
think we will get to see AI robots
efficiently
skill that they were able to do most you
know what we think of as reasonably
repetitive tasks including a lot of
intellectual class wants to one surprise
everyone always thought factories we the
place where AI was hidden kasi massive
disruption of course they all doing just
that but they also had a lot of office
jobs and you know it happens in the
background but there aren't any people
that go around really doing editing for
spellcheck anymore because we have
spellcheck
there were people whose jobs were doing
just that and say a lot of newspapers
have people who did that and now they
have spellcheck and they still have tons
of grammar I was at least in love
newspapers in my area but you know you
had a lot of AI I think that would be
taking over live what I think it was non
creative jobs and I generally term that
you have a lot more a lot more actual
new jobs popping up because usually
there's so much work to be done that you
know and so many things we can always
improve in terms of standard of living
that if you start eliminating jobs you
can usually find a new jobs to give
people because the new things we popped
up as a demand but it's always hard to
say we we didn't do but I was going to
do an episode of caught on automated
unemployment and we might get about
doing it at one point but you know
that's a that's a topic way or it's so
hard to picked what's gonna happen it
will be disruptive but I think you were
usually turn out to be in that benefit
so automation be the other big one um
and I would say probably a lot more
virtual reality that I never sure that
could be one of those things that people
really get their lives dominated by in
terms like that becoming people spend
all the time in virtual space I think
that is probably a long way off um
Threepio ass shout out from South Africa
I've never actually visited app I have
to make that trip there at some point in
time I've like see the pyramids so
that's on the other side of continent
and let's see what was the question how
would you go about picking your crew of
a spacecraft all because intended to
reseed humanity Wow
you know I think when we're doing the
evacuation or that I made the point that
mmm whenever they're talking about like
these bunkers that are designed uh you
know keep a thousand people and um and
you have to put the exports in of course
force you make sure your
brightest scientists and they say why
why would you need your best and
brightest theorists in your bunker
they're not going to be doing any more
new science down here when you were
singing interlock out in for instance
you really don't need your best theorist
you those guys back home they're not
gonna be do any science and their new
colony because back home from a
civilization to send them out there
there's gonna be trillions and trillions
of people in that local solar system
doing all the research and sending it on
them they do need scientists of course
about to teach the sciences and execute
the actual science and engineering they
they are and also to actually collect
data to send back to all the scientists
they owe and I'm sure many of them will
actually get scientific accomplishments
their own because they got theorize and
they'll be right on the spot with force
access to the data which will take years
and years to transmit home and back but
you know you're gonna get better results
in terms of science by sitting home the
signal waiting the century for to get
back from Earth because there's just so
many more than advancing the science
they are in terms of how did you pick
those crew you say well we need the
people with like no genetic deviations
no no deficiencies and say no you can do
that with frozen sperm and eggs and
typically a civilization like that is
going to be able to treating right
they're medically anyway so it's not
really likely too much of an issue and I
guess I think you don't really worry
about genetic bottleneck and either
again you could send you know any any
ethnicity you felt like sending along
and still pack long every other
ethnicity and still grow them on the
spot and so you wouldn't want to do it
that way maybe you wouldn't have to do
it that way you might do that for the
basic crew because you're trying to pull
best talent from every location um one
of the things they usually do in in
these kind of sci-fi ones they're trying
to pick up a car nice for cruise or
cruise for colonies
force generations a skill is what kind
of skills do we need to get from point A
to point B core scenario type wise you
want people very conscientious I'd say
you know very strong sense of duty and
very good educators because most what
they're doing is ship maintenance and
educating the next generation when it's
a when it's a whole ship like that
probably an awful lot of badness to and
by
you know agricultural exports control
that field while you're going there and
maintain that ecosystem and what the
auction you're doing it that way but
other than that I don't think you would
have to be all that picky about your
crew you send a lot of people who have
themselves good profiles psychologically
as well as in terms of skill sets and
you try to get them aged diversified
enough so that you know you're not
having like when you first put them on
boy say oh we're gonna put all these
notes on board they have kids on the way
so why now you got a big gap like 20
years between you know your new people
being born and then the folks who are
getting older of course we have live
extension doesn't matter but yeah I
don't think we'd actually to be all that
picky about those and the other thing is
we start setting elk ships on that very
first one where you're you know probably
be fitting out like winter the Apollo
crew you know cream in the crop and in
terms of skills
the idea is incent one ship to send tens
of thousands and thousands of ships out
to colonize toys every store you can and
at that point in time your idea crew is
probably volunteers and is not actually
criminally insane well then pack them
onboard tray home and ass do you agree
with Elon that discovery of intelligent
alien life will result in a dramatic
increase in defense spending now Ron I
don't expect to actually discover
intelligent alien life anytime soon and
if we did it would be wow look at that
quarter ship 3 civilization a hundred
billion light years from me oh um it's
not in the billion hundred million light
years from here and let's see you know
I'm not sure that I don't know what the
context that statement was the idea is
if aliens come near us and and whether
they seem peaceful or not you want to be
able to defend yourself the problem is
you're not going to do that with
conventional weapons if they can
actually get to us you're not gonna be
like build up enough guns without :
technology to be able to do anything
against them so what you'd be spending
on on if you want you you know more
defense to make yourself safer which you
understand they want to do is to be
spending out a lot of engineering and
science who are really good at back
engineering things from what they could
see of the alien technology you'll get
your hands on you might get really heavy
spending
people who are effectively pickpocketing
the alien ambassadors for their
smartphones you can back engineer it and
you know who stealthily go through the
Embassy's garbage trying to find any bit
of technology they can get spent a lot
of money on like hiring your very best
negotiator as an ambassadors to try to
weasel technology out of them so you can
have you know 10 times the military
force we have nowadays it's not gonna
help you against anybody who's got
interstellar travel they they just have
too much of an energy advantage on you
cool ass cats thank you again like cool
ass cancer
let's see Simon FOMO ass
Isaac have you thought any more about
the security of allowing your stellar
labels to build Michael Dyson beams um I
dunno you asked me that a while ago son
and there was one the Facebook page I
think um the idea being if you have
somebody in my code I assemble it again
that's the you know stellar death stall
equivalent could you actually let your
neighbors build something like that or
would you have to strike force for they
could actually build it and the idea
being if they turn that on you you know
you look at a vaporize you and you
either get potentially vaporize your
whole solar system and bits and pieces
if you got the time growing dice in
yourself and then that you know that if
four strike has to be to do a four
strike we're not using the mutually
assured destruction policy you have to
have a four strike that doesn't allow
mutually short destruction the issue
there is that you can actually pack
stuff around and actually get a vaporize
you know again to blow up the earth you
actually had to torn the whole solar
energy on it for a week so somebody
could be sticking something on the the
dark side of your something in terms of
direction towards them the dark side of
an asteroid or moon where was you know
buried under kilometres Iraq and that
hang has enough time to deploy and
that's nothing but a ton of small you
know thin me or so basically shoot
around the Sun and form another nikon
dicing itself and then target and even
at them you might also potentially be
able to do that around you know leave
packages around other stars - rapidly
assemble but I think your major way up
of anyone from doing that themselves so
they could build one themselves around a
you know an unoccupied store and try to
you without you knowing about it or
knowing who did it anyway is that you
just want to play a lot of probes very
well you know somebody's system is there
a system and you spike and right outside
it call the equivalent of like you know
national water or so if you would if
it's an unoccupied system you leave
probes there you know you want to see
what's going on so I could solely do a
four strike with an iodine Samim I just
don't think that would actually be
effective and again you would never
actually do an attack like that with the
beam itself you would send all cams and
then will powered by that beams they
showed up in a volley you know you turn
a beam on or it's gonna take a week for
an art for saw like a Sun comes energy a
week for the form you walk down to you
know total ashes you vaporize the
surface area rather much quicker than
that but you could probably have a crust
off inside a couple hour or so well you
need to be as 24 hours actually get the
plan to spin all the way around there
you'd have boned off the whole
atmosphere and everything inside it by
then um yeah you own like any one side
but instead you send relativistic kill
missiles because instead that's taking a
week to deliver its payload you are
delivering all that energy to they all
campuses are going and you're delivering
it in a staggered fashion that it has
them all alive at the same time in a big
volley volley file is much better so all
those things come ramming in there as to
what's your defense against that is
that's just a screen so you can shoot
those down but if you got somebody
putting an i-cord Ison beam to orbit you
know it around their Sun you can
encounter that by putting a great big
old you know the expandable me or out
that's a lot cheaper than going that
Nikon Dyson even that can be deployed
between you and them you know hmm let's
see
he was Stinson asks do you think that
increasing competition between the US
China and others Volks loa space
development oak so you know I always
like cooperation more than competition
though competition can be very good at
especially healthy competition can be
very good at boosting things forward but
I don't think cooperations more
effective you either one works to some
degree though assume he doesn't result
in a war obviously um but uh yeah I
guess I would say just a qualified yes
though I'd rather see more cooperation
and more importantly I think what's
gonna boost it is when somebody finally
economic use of the space like if
somebody does
asteroid mining and comes back with half
trillion tons of capturing dollars with
a gold you don't need any more
competition from the local governments
to get that done it's gonna Excel a
because if you want to get out there and
get that stuff it's um so number of
folks been asking if I go on that show
Brogan experience um I I think I've said
before that I get more suggestions to go
on that show then all the other podcast
interviews combined
I do like Joe Rogan show but I have a
policy when it comes to things like that
if somebody invites me on I'm only too
happy to come on I do not ask you to
come on their show because my philosophy
on that is force kind of forward second
those folks who do a lot of interviews
of guests they know what their audience
likes and if they have hold of you and
you know folks and investing hey check
this guy out great and they want to
bring you on otherwise they're gonna
know if they want you on your show and
what you do with your audience that's
they'll call and that's better done by
them too
so somebody invite you on your show they
know that you know that they think
there's a good episode they are based on
what they think of what they see at your
walk and what the audience likes and so
again worried asked me I'd be glad to go
on which is generally my attitude about
most podcasts or radio shows and if not
they're not um good show though
thank you again coolest cats
hello Joppa casts hello do you think
that cybernetic technologies are
required for interstellar travel no I
think you almost always have them but we
save a quiet you say is this useful and
you people want to use it well probably
yes the forced and maybe for the second
it would depend on the people and the
technology but you don't absolutely need
it I mean again if you've got a rotating
drum that's large then that's good
enough right it's more of a power source
and drive thing you really don't need
all that much advanced technology for
interstellar travel you just need that
power supply and that automation area to
produce big things
Vonnie go last thoughts on a ring around
or through solar power would it be in
your time would it be ever be a near
time reality
I mean you could do a big ring around
the earth I think we actually might do
an episode on that Monday is a mega
structural kind of like a halo gasp a yo
ring that goes around a planet that
people live on because you can't build
something like that I think we actually
talked that a little bit about that
matryoshka shell wallets I don't know
that you would do that as a solo power
thing though I mean you could it's just
why not just do smaller satellites you
know that you always like it's so like
when we talk about Dyson Sphere people
say why do people ever you know invest
in building something that big you say
well that's like I asked you why they'd
ever invest in building a million houses
you don't do one big thing you do lots
of smaller things incremental e as you
need them and then you can replace them
individually you can upgrade them
individually you can tell what you want
and other people can oh one will produce
them doing a single big ring around
Earth has its problems there's actually
the biggest downside of the orbital ring
is especially if you're trying to
eliminate just the equator because
that's that's something that almost IVs
gotta be okay with you building um
whereas when something you can just do
locally or small then it's much easier
to get that built and prototypes and
things like that um I think we got time
for a couple more questions mods if you
want to send me a few more okay slow
down I actually these through sometimes
I was waiting for a couple more
questions pop up in the discourse over
we got here going on I think I've
already mentioned that we are not doing
a discord after our show this time
around but um we just pull one right out
there things should NASA send a probe to
Europa to check for life in its
underground ocean if so is that the best
way to melt ice to get down there
mmm it's setting your protocol right now
to check for it I mean we'd love to see
that but what you probably have to do is
use be sending a probe that he had a
really strong tether a nuclear power
supply it's a Mel it's way down there
you probably see like a big hot metal
thing of a radioactive material gonna
tether on it and just drop that down
there and also with hopefully cameras on
it palm
if you are actually detecting your life
you probably sterilizing microbes but of
course they a bigger life there you'll
be able to see that I don't think we
want to try to do that anytime too soon
but I would say that would be you would
certainly mean like my top 5 list of
things get done in terms of solar system
exploration and all those of course
being taking samples from I taking some
depo samples from certain parts of malls
and yeah although we always say Europa
Kalista is also a good target so it's
trying know Titan and I would like to
take closer looks on those and so I want
to say which of those would be easiest
to do though but most your way down to
Europe I'd almost feel like that
something you'd want to do with an
actual base they oh hey Motors way down
there a little bit put your base so that
knocking irradiated by Magnus vo to
battle although often mentioned it on
the show those Magneto spheres are
actually pretty easy to clear up of all
that radiation if you're actually they
are you can start doing some things with
magnetics to just pull all that ions out
of there it's it's a turns out actually
not that hard so I don't want folks
think if you're selling place like
cheapo you always have to go for extreme
radiation protection there are things
you can do to just kind of limit that
threat because it's having it as the
mine is feels trapping ionized particles
and you can blow those out Mia dot my u
dot t-- k so mispronouncing that
question how do you think conspiracy
theories will evolve in the future I
have no idea I think they'll get a much
better production values and remain
popular you know it's something a lot of
folks forget is a lot of shows that do
cover that a pretty big show that the
audience doesn't necessarily believe the
conspiracy theories in question or they
might be open to one or two and they are
they just find it fun to listen to or
watch and maybe they open to it or not
by the same thing about science fiction
um you know it's some folks or true
believers and so it depends on
experience a theory something might be
much more valid than others but I don't
even really expect to see conspiracy
theories disappear at any point in time
Jeff Franklin hello do you think dark
energy is something we could harvest
forward space and make FTL
uh if we really understood how we expand
space that way with dog energy and that
was something we could tap I don't think
you could use that to I don't think you
use that to actually go faster and light
in each of your fashion which you're
doing is you're adding extra space you
know presumably near your ship that's
not something you you really want to be
doing but I know I don't really see in a
way you could do that if we're gonna
tell us how dark energy is producing
space though that would certainly be
tons of cool technologies and
potentially potentially and infinite
power supply we don't know where that's
coming from so it's hard to say alright
we got time for one last question
edit life thank you very much stupid
sci-fi too stupid sci-fi question if we
adapt in space over generations the
viens EOG will our brains hypertrophy
grow super loud you know I think I
mentioned earlier my favorite sci-fi
writer is Alastair Reynolds for Howard
sci-fi he does have an example in house
of sons of a group of people who've
chosen to do you know life extension and
mental expansion by just letting
themselves keep growing and they have
gigantic heads and they they think
slower but you know they have much more
thoughts or just slower and we actually
see something like that with I can't
move his actual name Julian Duffy key
being from the end Oh endless game
series he's just a giant who keeps
growing and growing and growing and they
have him spaceships that he won't won't
die from the weight of gravity as a war
and sorry I mean that is an option I and
of course it's always popular in sci-fi
to show people have been living on board
ships in space being super large or
super tall and skinny and rate like but
you could potentially get the make a
skull giant head skinny little body
thing going on but I really don't think
so because you know again the high otech
you get the more you can basically be
cosmetic about your appearances and I
don't think people would be too casual
about abandon the you know the baseline
ideal human forms but it's possible um
alright and that's actually kind of an
interesting one to do I could see people
potentially a much bigger heads with
time anyway we're going to
and close out was going over the
schedule real quick it's presumably been
up there in the background we do have
coming up this week is the spacesuits
and extreme environment suits episode
and then we got winter on Venus coming
up after that and then high-tech soldier
to rescue and we do have that bonus
episode I think I mentioned on the break
I'm not sure when we're doing our next
livestream just yet I think that's going
to be probably the 27th of October but
we'll put that up there towards last
week I was like to hold off on
scheduling those things in case
something comes up on that Sunday anyway
thanks for joining us today and we will
see you on Thursday so that wraps up
today's livestream Q&A if you had a
question we didn't get to or another
came to mind feel free to put that in
the comments on the video and I'll be
back later this evening to answer them
you can also pop in to our Facebook
group science and futurism with Isaac
alpha to discuss topics with like-minded
individuals or any of our other forms
thanks again for joining us today and
we'll see you Thursday
you
