[Music]
welcome to our monthly live stream we
will be getting started in just a moment
so if you've got questions go ahead and
stop putting those in the chat window so
I and the moderators can pull them out
and get to them if we don't get to them
during today's show feel free to leave
them down the comments or come and join
us for after-show oh one the s fi a
discord sobel all that said thanks for
joining us and let's get started
good afternoon everyone and welcome to
our monthly livestream for October of
2019 we'll get to questions just a
moment and go ahead and put those into
live chat so the moderators can find
them and get them logged up and ready
for us to answer a couple announcements
before we get rolling we do have an
extra episode coming out this week on
nebula
that's you'll be able to see after the
veo intelligence episode which is coming
out sorry radio technology episode
that's coming out this Thursday at the
usual time and we have a poll running
right now for what episodes we're going
to be doing before very early January
I think last I looked it looked like the
moon industrialization complex idea it
was running at the top but the poll will
be open for the next next let's see
probably close that out next weekend I
think actually so we'll go ahead and get
started with questions and the force
myself in a chat while we were getting
live was actually a goal to the moon was
if we mined the moon out enough what
would happen to its orbit around the
earth and the simple answer is in of
itself not necessarily anything but when
you're removing material from something
you have to blast off in order to leave
it if you to cut the moon in half right
now nothing would happen and we would
just kind of sit there and just back
together if you moved a ton of mass from
the moon you'd have to do that in such a
way that pushed a lot of you know new
inertia into it so for instance if I was
lifting my Fredo's off the moon
sometimes counterclockwise sometimes
clockwise but it's all but from the
earth it would stay in the same place
even as we got less mass hired they
would have less effect on the earth
itself in terms of its gravity its
gravity and poor but you can always set
up so the moon will keep stay in the
same place in the sky and the same Oprah
period because that doesn't really light
too much - its mass now you give a
little bit some adjustment as you're
moving the mass off it so I should
paying some attention to when you're
launching things it should even out
where you want it okay next question
Missy what I thought how did you spend
that birthday says just a guy
Sara I went out for dinner on crosswinds
that's a restaurant fund of just down
the road for me so I don't like
that was about the that was a sir not
only a big birthday person so eleven six
or nine asks how would someone go about
establishing an ecosystem on a barren
planet that has sufficient water and
atmosphere for life hmm if we're talking
about an earth-like world in terms of
its basic setup but one that doesn't
have any life on it yet I don't think
you'd actually be made to likely to find
a proper earth-like atmosphere oceans in
such a place that live because there's
all very connected that biology this
planet if you do though as long as the
soil is about what you want to be so
long as you've got all the like soil
components and you probably would not
because there's no biology chewing on
them you can pretty much stop digging
things in right away but you could
terraform justify it very quickly just
by I mean relatively speaking by just
introducing basic biota forests and then
you add slightly more complex and
increased forms of microorganisms and
eventually stop putting on your mass you
know like and your grass and other
things kind of hold the door in place
and no I think that in terms of
terraforming so adding water I suppose
you're not doing you don't know that dot
in place not dumping trillions of
gallons of water on it from comets but
you'd still have to start doing that and
I really don't think you'd have soil on
a planet that didn't have life on it
though if it did have water because
there's nothing holding it in place in
some way on water but it would be a much
easier place to terraform hmm Jesse by
TAS are you planning on anything for
Halloween I don't think we actually have
anything queued up for Halloween yet I'm
trying to think there's any plans
there's an episode on Halloween that's
that's the way our intelligence our
technology episode we intelligence with
the previous one um now that I can think
of let's see the sparrow man asks if
there are other intelligent life forms
around how likely is it that they use
the same economic system as we do can we
consider our systems capitalism
communism feudalism etc Universal
probably not except in the most broad
strokes you would you know you look at
any given economic system and what folks
would generally refer to it as this form
of that form series with democracies the
basic concept is
almost never what people are using that
one sense description is really the
entirety of it
like for instance we're not just a
democracy in the United States or even a
Democratic Republic is people would
point out we're also a cry talkie which
is ruled by judges as we have that as a
co-equal branch of government cry talkie
is a Couture rule by judges of course
but there's that element same you have a
little bit of an element of Jo and taqwa
see in our society as people get older
and wiser and we do rule by the elderly
so you have to have that baseline system
in place for anything economic or
political it's never enough public well
it could but it's not too likely a nasty
one sentence description and all the
other things are gonna be very dependent
on what other systems they have in play
what other cultures and traditions and
so I don't think you'd really find
matching Universal systems too much but
the basic broad principles the P of
those as economic concepts or governing
concepts those are poppy relatively
Universal Albert Jackson asks if a
virtual world was built inside a quantum
computer with the objects inside that
world exhibit quantum property is
superposition and tagamet cetera they
could if you program in them you know
when you're doing a simulation any
substrate that's the abilities of the
off of has an effect on on the system
obviously but whether you're printing
your name on a short the side of a house
a piece of paper or carving into a desk
and you know that does have an impact on
what it is we're using this complex a
simulated Ward I'd be dubious if you
really see that substrate really going
through that much whether you're working
on a classic computer or quantum
computer and and again quantum computing
is is doing a very strange and
mythological almost set of traits that
really match up to well with what the
stuff does but I shouldn't think there'd
be much of a difference and you could
certainly have quantum properties inside
a quantum computer run simulation let's
see if aliens don't carry the same moles
as we do is it okay to go all in
Imperium of man and bash their heads in
and drive them away from their systems
that's what Bobby I Warhammer 40k
reference the Imperium in 40k is really
xenophobic very Center phobic they
pretty much kill off all the aliens they
and the semi justification newer
versions of it is basically that all the
aliens they want to cost all of crafty
and a or just motorists monsters
who will look to do the same to you I
don't think we could expect to see a
galaxy very like that beyond the fact
that everything in 40k is written from
the county Lovecraftian or Moorcock
perspective that the universe is just a
nihilistic wasteland waiting to you know
decay away so it's not a cheerful place
they are but you know in science fiction
you have to have the idea and Olson
Scott called talk spell a bit more than
like speak of the Dead and Xenocide
which can kind of guess the title what's
going on they are
if you encounter a species or they
someone you can easily interact with
it's done I've seen other alien species
but it could be cultures of your own
species to keep an eye back to them can
you be friends with them can you toss
them or is there no way whatsoever to
actually cannot coexist with them and
you know we obviously can't rule out the
possibility of that could be things out
there that we just could not coexist
with and that could mean you could just
go on to each other from each other no
that could mean no choice but go into a
a no holds bar or scorched earth or
scorched Earth's policy and just try to
wipe each other out and what's done is
left over but that's a pretty
pessimistic view of the universe and I
would say that that's not something you
really have spent too much time thinking
about if you can't coexist for them
you're probably gonna figure that out
real quick and you can take according
the action as necessary
but I don't think that's gonna come up I
should certainly hope it does not but
it's probably something we can rule out
a though Matt Campbell asks if you know
good morning Matt or afternoon Matt if
you could watch any philosopher get in a
pillow fight with any dinosaur what kind
of soda would you drink I was thinking
uh we always start up subs off with
these little one-liners before we go
into the music and the intro title was
in about a quarter or thought of those
of it and usually the choke ones are
actually written by Matt Campbell so if
you could watch any philosopher getting
a pillow fight with any dinosaur what
kind of soda would you drink I guess it
would depend on the flask for maybe the
cow a
and uh was there an imaginary type of
soda so there's no artificial sweetener
diet coke we'll go with the diet coke I
don't really drink soda a root beer
float maybe Andre Jones ass are you
going to do an episode on reproduction
they are new technologies where or even
persons of the same sex can have a
biological offspring mmm that's not
exactly a newest thing though that is
relatively new
you tributed mix people's DNA in various
ways to always create a viable offspring
and I think that that would be well
those things but I don't know there's
all that much do on that episode it's
possible imagine the differences but we
could look at that it's just generally
the idea then the future where science
so and you really should be able to
widen the options available and that one
should have its ups and it's downs of
course like many things because you also
open the door to genetically engineer
children which again is hard to shut
down there because there's so much
advantage to you know give me your kid a
a with the upped game and it's kinda
hard to argue that sim more but at the
same time puts a lot of the people at a
disadvantage too and so forth so yeah
maybe we will do an episode on at some
point lots of material to discuss there
mmm snowy Rafael asks what techniques
you have covered doing terraforming do
you think we should use for climate
change I mean look at the Venus episode
we talked about solar shades they are
the most obvious application of that
earthbound be of you if y'all trying to
deal with the amount of light coming on
the planet to help it cool down if you
decide that you want to cool the planet
down or besides you want to warm it up
would be the the orbital or Lagrange
point solar shades of Neos and you might
also size you want to tinker with where
that lights actually coming in if you
change the concentrations coming to one
place or another that can help you to
just spell hora canes or warm up some
areas that you'd like to make you know
better accessible like we might decide
we want a little bit of light from you
know the Sahara Desert to to Siberia and
thus you know get a 2/4 on that one or
so easy or tale for more.we green the
Sahara and the Siberian area at that
point in time or you might we would have
a chunk of ocean or so forth but I mean
that's probably the most obvious
application a lot of the geoengineering
options are tend to make me a bit
nervous thing
like changing the atmosphere composition
or ocean compositions because it seems
like you're fixing the problem by
potentially introducing another one if
you're just reducing the amount of light
that comes in especially infrared which
is nothing will retain Elan gone and you
could just block the infrared spectrum
it's a pretty big chunk of the spectrum
the hits off that strikes me as puppy or
I would say least you know feeling cos
obviously changed things around a path
of least resistance perhaps mmm-hmm
thank you all god
okay Cora in reference to the MMI
episode that's my machine you know you
know face up so that came out this
Thursday one of the goals of neural link
as far as I know is to augment humans be
competitive with AI thoughts you don't
waste time competing with machines if
it's nay I in a sense of people often
mean where it's intelligent thing then
that's a person you're dealing with
essentially otherwise a very specialized
type of machine it's like trying to
compete with soy or when I was a kid
they were very fond of this one song I
came up with the guy's name was there's
a classic focus on the United States
where they had early mining machine that
could drill holes like a couple was four
tunnels full wave always go through and
maybe was John Henry and a man was
cutting a hole through the stone to
outdo the Machine he beat it a fellow
with a muse over and it's supposed to be
a very inspirational son and I don't
think you hear as much these days
because Keane is kind of silly
I don't compete with a call I don't
argument myself to compete with a call
I'm gonna put yours on my legs to try to
you know become a segue if it's an AI
it's not a person that's just a machine
that's tailored to do things you want if
it is a person for given value of person
then you compete with them like anybody
else if you want to augment yourself to
be more competitive with some other
person whether they are natural less
natural or I should say artificial or
very artificial humans are that natural
then you you do whatever actually think
is appropriate same as any other job or
competition sauce you have more of
Johnson thank you as how would you get
power from a direct fusion rocket wind
all the output of the direct Thurston
you need a second house reactor for the
ship yes though you could always direct
a little bit of that to us you know in a
symmetric fash
and backed where you could grab it but
realistically you almost never gonna
capture all the heat energy being
produced by fusion torch drive and
that's Paula pom is actually keeping
something that cool so you just put some
thermocouples or heat engine on the side
the housing whoever it tends to on that
design heat of the most and that's
probably give you more enough power hmm
Kevin Scott asks can we get a single
timeline of what technologies will call
together in the future
ie what a k2 Dyson's former court the
same time is autonomous seed ships we
can never have a cohesive timeline is I
know folks try to put together for the
outward-bound series because they say
there's a bit of a storyline there and I
did give some dates cars at a time
none of these futures are ever meant to
be the actual one beyond the fact that I
would know what they all mean like a
plateau say would not be we usually
discuss the future in terms of one
specific technology so it's I saying
what would ancient Rome be like in terms
of what we what we actually do we bring
these things up
what would Incheon be like if they
invented the smartphone in a cell like
but everything else was same they just
you know hand smartphones and satellite
grids and of course they would never
have just those things in isolation but
that tends to be how we treat things
when we look at on the show we grab one
or two discreet technologies and ask
what the impact would be so as 4k to
Dyson swarm that of course there are two
ways to think of a Dyson swarm like that
either a you really want the power or B
you really want to have room for people
and the energy that you need to drive
them if you're doing a people based one
then the point at which you have a
completed Dyson swarm or close to it is
at whatever point the population starts
getting up there about 10 to 18 or 10
and 19 billion billion people many
billions of billions of people and the
way which you can grow to that just
depends on what people's birth weights
are we quadrupled in population last
century and we were hardly going crazy
about trying to have as many kids as we
could so we could easily get up that
quite quickly if you're doubling every
century which we rather slow growth even
nowadays if UW population every century
then in a thousand years you have
increased your population
a factor of a thousand that's to the
tenth right and if you need to get that
up a billion billion then it takes you
three thousand years if you need to do
it slower than that or fast NASA's kind
of timeframe the other way of doing a
Dyson swarm though is that you just want
the power you add in more habitats later
on but you're just putting in solar
collectors and mio is up because you
want the power if you're doing that it's
because you want to colonize probably
because that's about the only thing I
can think of that you need that kind of
power other than the run in normal
industry and you know life support for
people so asked whether or not you'd
ever use autonomous seed ships I don't
know that we would use a ton of missing
ships we got use them as a vanguard on
its here forming fleet or car loan your
feed that was running you know centuries
ahead of the fleet that was coming but I
don't think it's good idea sending out
life-creating seed ships like that
without people on board again for a
given relative value of what we mean by
people despair man asks if you could
enter a simulation running a human
simulation and to a simulation running a
human civilization and just being
observable for like ten years with a
power to move around like a camera in
what year would you choose near that I
mean guess that kind of amounts to if I
could spy on any any chunk of humanity
for ten years what what year would I
choose to do that there's a few that
come to mind
I mean honestly any major historical
then but you know for me you'll be what
ten years but I look at it probably a
couple of centuries down the road might
say well it's ended a million years
ahead but yeah a couple of centuries
down the road you can probably figure
out the science by just looking at from
a distance they might not be that much
more advanced we get an idea what's
ahead of you but I mean if we talk about
a past time there are so many ancient
cultures and civilizations that you know
it's so easy to fall in love with them
as fascinating they all had quite a few
flaws as we have now but they have
interesting bits I mean I think a lot of
them would be actually quite boring to
watch you could just read up on the
books instead umm but it'd be kind of
nice to have been around and like late
1800s Early 1900s when it seems like a
lot of Science and Technology stuff was
really getting more you know rolling but
then to be a temptation like hanging out
with Ben Franklin in the late 1700s and
again you can keep going for the back
there's all sorts of time periods
might be incident you know okay Andre
Jones asked if we improve genetic
engineering so much we can literally
change our parents on-demand how would
we define humanity then if you can prove
genetic engineering I don't think that
would just magically make you a
shapeshifter
that seems why I got a cybernetics type
of thing um but if it's one that
suitably like if we can just mold the
human form to whatever I want and give
it in person I would tend to say you
know it does depend on what you mean by
defined humanity we I mean you can take
the dualistic approach at the mind and
the body are very separate at that
specific form of dualism but that's
clearly not true your mind absolutely
affects your body and your body
obviously affects your mind your inputs
the world uh control how you think a lot
you're not gonna look at the world the
same way if you're five or six inches
taller or shorter than nobody and that's
relatively but you know inside the
normal human frame walk if I stop giving
you the abode is seen infrared or I
start giving you wings you could fly
around or any number of other things
that's going to really change your
outlook but does that mean you're not
human anymore
again that's so hard to say it's why I
tend like the world post a little bit
better it's human usually implies the
biological Homo Sapien although again
these terms are you know kind of
mishmash at this stage I don't know
where you draw the line or where human
is but you just take the philosophy of
you know we didn't doubt there was a
burden of proof to say someone is not
human as opposed to a born if we were to
say that they all wanna be alpha asks if
a generation ship is launched how do we
ensure that future generations remember
the mission and have the same
ideological zeal as their force
generation you know I know we discussed
that in million-year-old but I'm sure
that came up in one of the more recent
episodes too um this kind of problem
you're going to have anything like that
is and we did spend a lot of time
talking about that four million you all
can when you're brainstorming that up
how you keep people on task and as I
pointed out there there's really very
limited methods you have that are not
coercive and you almost always kind of
had to use something that's course it
like you
megha so the ship only has enough fuel
to stop at that one specific design
destination and there's kind of a
problem with that it says to me the best
approach is to send mini mini ships out
to mini me places and see what sticks
you know and if people aren't sticking
out their given method you start
changing things around but I I would
feel u88 enough I was born on a
generation ship that was gonna spend my
entire life on that generation ship not
on earth and not at the destination that
I really wouldn't want to have anything
added to that that was even more
controlling like people telling me
exactly how I should go about things
when you get to colonizing you don't
want to be ruled over by a dead hand so
a lot of it says you prepare to try to
keep your continuity but otherwise you
just send out lots of lots of seeds to
lots of wolves and see what walks and
over the centuries you get better and
better at doing that but since people
could end up die you know or just you
know going mad or crazy if you're not
doing that well you obviously want to
put a lot of thought into advance it's
just from my perspective I don't think
you try to push them too much to do what
you want them to do because again they
are gonna be on the scene with the same
information you have they're probably
gonna make better decisions than you all
and Legolas they'll they are decision so
Jesse bright asks have you heard of the
quantum computer Google has created I
haven't looked into it much yet neither
of I I wear quantum computing so on we
did do an episode on it a couple years
back it's interesting it's important
there's to be a lot of applications to
it for cryptography especially making
better cryptography but until its start
seeing the more commercial or at least
on the industrial level usage I'm not
terribly I don't we keep up on too much
detail the basic concepts are they on
we'll see what develops thank you Chris
Kula asks how is the game going you were
walking on which one umm.yeah asked for
a lot of creative input our lives or the
various things but I'm poly Hades 9 I
hadn't actually heard anything from
Nichkhun a bit mmm I assume was still
going on fairly well since I look you
know what left on my discord chat here I
see their message board has quite a few
more hits in terms of conversation which
I should probably around a reading
sometime soon um
see they go I said thank you Chris but
thank you again Chris
Pepsi Atlas what's what are you a drink
and snack of choice um you know I for
drinks I mostly do coffee and water or
water with some kind of a you know
electrolyte in it um water what keeps
the throat open and dry and you need you
need to stay hydrated a little bit of
life advice always get a full night's
sleep and always stay hydrated keeps
that clear
um as for snacks I don't really snack
that much was I had something yesterday
and a brownie yesterday um it's actually
the best brownie am I've ever had in my
life when my friend's moms made it was
just the best brownie I've had um but
I'm not usually a big snack or an oh god
um let's see mr. Popple what solutions
the Fermi paradox do you like the most
not the one you think is most likely the
one you think is most novel fun
interesting then what I think is most
novel fun and interesting hmm
those are all a little bit different
though I mean my known stance on that is
the is the Rayo technology approach not
that technology itself is going to be
particularly unlikely to develop you
know follow most intelligent species
although we'll be talking about this
Thursday but more the idea that there's
just so many steps along the pathway to
get there that you you know you just
don't have anybody inside this galaxy
all enables the alternative one that's
the one that's most interesting is
actually the a lot of the old aliens
over courses cyclists things like we see
with the Reapers in Mass Effect or sim
law those make for good stories I don't
see they're very likely but those tend
to make for the best ones where there's
some kind of cycle going on
that explains why why why there's no
major huge ancient civilizations lying
around dominating everything I was with
that and so many novels uh the Ringworld
setting that that's there for larry
niven babylon 5 does that same one with
the shadows in the vorlons I guess it's
so install track 2 that's a little
little bit that might not be in the
canned stuff they have a lot of books
that discuss things more details I don't
even vaguely can and son and with very
good reason
hello azo tase me though I think if
you're going to let people publish books
in your
Cirie's their cannon and if you don't
want you don't have and publish on so
your otherwise treat like fanfiction hmm
let's see
mr. Ganz Neto asks given that we have
almost limitless resources in our solar
system for at least a billion years do
you think we will be motivated to make
an interstellar leap before then yes
first we don't have almost limitless
resources our solar system we have
almost limitless from all perspective
right now as we start utilizing those
we'd be growing in in both what we want
and and how many people who have wanting
stuff and I think you would want to
start moving that outside or at least
start harvesting resources second the
thing about having almost limitless
resources like that I mean talking about
having access to k2 levels of resources
is that becomes a lot easier to do
things like go colonize another planet
and you've not as a rule throughout
history actually do much your colonizing
and pioneering because you outer space
you know you have a lot of folks you all
they don't necessarily hate the
civilization they're part of but they
don't really feel too connected to it so
the motivation to leave is largely
because of that you know it's a kind of
a second son's thing go find you Te'o
toy but you get a really big source is
in place that has tons of resources
you're gonna have people want to
colonize even if there is tons of empty
cheap housing available whoever wants it
here Peter Joseph yes will you do an
episode on blockchain and digital code
see we did a cryptocurrency episode what
three years ago its cryptocurrency and
blockchain um that might need a bit of
an update at some point in time we'll
see if the cybersecurity episode from
November 7th does well or not I've no
sure what the audience is to you into
and if we do we might do some more more
modern computing topics wall tricks asks
how many people work on videos for the
channel is the team or just you on the
actual videos I'm the only one who
actually works on those videos but in
terms of helping to write the the
material up or helping out with Marta we
in the show or creating some of the art
we use on the show or helping to
brainstorm the scripts or helping to
edit the scripts and sometimes you
providing big chunks of the scripts that
is a big team effort and
I'm not really sure how many people
actually act about inium time there are
over 100 that are on our production
group though and some of them you know
I've left to other things and some of
them have you're just busy with other
things so I'm getting like once a month
someone every episode so even usually on
the credit hole and then in fact I talk
about some of the other aspects fairly
soon to wait and then we get the break
in just a couple minutes he'll lorem
ipsum asks what are your thoughts on the
Navy's acknowledging the recent UFO UAP
footage you know I actually think I
talked about that on Jimmy church's show
Jimmy church's show fade to black in our
most recent episode we deal with him
that would be on YouTube or on his web
site you can find that in the Facebook
forum to link to that and we get that a
little bit more detail but that's I
don't have too many thoughts on in
general though beyond what we discussed
they Oh last question for we go to break
Seth Walker asks have you ever heard of
the concept of lattice quantum
chromodynamics as it applies to
simulating quantum physics if so how do
you think it impacts the tenability of
the simulation hypothesis hmm now I'm
gonna have to say I'm not really too
familiar with how that would apply to
quantum I know a lot of people like to
suggest with things like the simulation
hypothesis that you couldn't possibly
simulate every atom in the universe and
therefore you couldn't do a universe of
simulation I have no idea why they would
think that applied I can simulate a
planet on my computer I just can't
simulate it down to the atom but then
again I don't actually do simulate it
down to the atom I just need to simulate
it enough that all the part that I'm
seeing for it to be passing if you can
put on a virtual reality helmet and see
enough detail that you feel like you're
living in the real world then that's a
pretty efficient you know Tim and you
don't really need to be able to zoom
into the atomic level we have lots of
ways of dealing with that in computer
games already if you want to be able to
zoom in they don't have to render it all
at once and one could argue that quantum
makes a really good setup for an app you
to exactly track things and we got to
pick back later on why things went wrong
and you know how the simulation is not
real real but you do not need to
simulate every atom in a universe to do
to simulate
that universe convincingly alright let's
go ahead and head to break and we're
back in just a moment while we are
taking a quick break it's a good chance
to get some questions in for all
moderators to grab and forward to me if
you want to increase the odds it will
get answered and be nice to all mods try
to keep it clear and concise and wash
the typos however we won't get to every
question and normally I come back in a
while after a live stream to watch the
replay and to answer any questions left
in the comments after today's show
though we will also be heavy a discord
live chat on the SFI a discord so vol
linked in the video description though
we do ask everyone to enable the
push-to-talk option and respect everyone
else there which is to say if you have
already asked a question try to let
others get nails in before asking
another and don't talk over top of other
people especially when they are asking a
question or I'm trying to apply to it
you can also stick questions and replies
in the Tex channel attached to the audio
chat again though please remember to go
into your settings on discord and change
them to the push-to-talk before joining
the conversation also we vote out some
more SFI a motion dies to join all mugs
t-shirts and tote bags by popular demand
we've added some hats and you can find
those at our website eyes ago thought
net on the merchandise tab next to the
donate tab and of course you're welcome
to click on that donate tab to to help
support the show or click over to our
books tab to see any of the mini novel
as we recommended over the years before
we get back to the show I want to take a
quick moment to thank all the volunteers
who helped out on that show from the
mods help you out in sending me
questions for our chat today and who
will be helping motivate our discord
after our show to all the other mods on
Facebook reddit Twitter our website
isakova net and of course youtube itself
in recent live streams we've often
featured folks who helped out on script
editing and graphic design and of course
you get to see those folks who helped
make the episodes in the credit roll on
each episode the show wouldn't be half
as good without their help but that's
only part of the show SFI a isn't just
about me talking about some topic for
half an hour each week it's about all
the discussion and questions and random
brainstorming all of you do afterwards
we've built up a phenomenal community in
terms of size courtesy and cleverness
and it's a wonder for me to behold but
none of that would be possible without
all the moderators helping keep things
organized and running if you're not only
part of one of those communities
I suggest pop me in and give me a try as
they're always full of stimulating
conversation and while you're there give
a quick thanks and shout out to our the
mods for all of their hard walk and now
back to our show
okay and we're back next question Doug
Jones asks could solo shades be
detrimental to photosynthesis yes and no
if you're just between a few shades up
to limit like if you put them out the
Lagrange point you put a shade up they
are the amount of light that's gonna
block it's gonna be scatter all over the
place but just be a tiny amount but you
could also pick materials that will
clear to visible light but will
reflective to infrared and/or to those
frequencies that photosynthesis mostly
does not use and that would let you do a
cooling effect without interfering with
photosynthesis at all indeed we might
want to do something like that at some
point in time I mean you could have a
setup where you intentionally cut down
on your forehead and boosted your red
and blue light to enhance photosynthesis
about warming a planet up too so there's
that advantage
if you want more biomass john coleman
asks what percentage chance do you give
the human race of making it without
going to space or how long and if we
just stayed at home here on earth
relatively low because that would imply
to me that we were not really doing well
as a culture at that point in time well
you don't really need to spread out that
much I know the philosophy of don't put
all your eggs in one basket is very true
but you could just you know scare them a
few things here and there throughout
your solar system because of as
industrial hubs for mining and and
relatively independent place that could
move back up if the earth blew up um but
I I really do not expect that we would
limit ourselves too much in terms of
getting out there into space but I don't
think you actually need to to me the
reason it's not you all particularly in
danger from the only on one planet but
more that if your culture has decided
it's not going to try to embrace that
that's stepping forward and colonizing
thing there's probably something
starting to go wrong with that culture
but we did an episode stay at home
civilizations for me paradox state home
civilizations four years ago I've
started lose track when we do episodes
and that one talks more about the ins
and outs of why you might stay at home
and and what that would look like and
whether or not that's tenable and I
would say this tenable but not
preferable albert jackson Jenkinson asks
if we assume dark energy is part a
controlling dark energy as possible
hmm excuse me
if we assume controlling dark energy as
possible could we slow the expansion the
universe to pull on the stellar era of
the universe no that's a what's what
happens with the expansion is that
that's an intergalactic effect a few of
the galaxy's closest to us will stick
around and merge with all galaxies over
the next ten to twenty billion years
they shall be shoved together by the end
though it's a little bit hard to react
about that and by about 180 billion
years now and that's nowhere near the
entity of the stellar period about a
hundred million years now every other
place that isn't gravitationally bound
to us should have by dog and she have
float over the cosmological event
horizon at that point time thus tell of
your continues and just keeps kicking
along for several trillion years at
least and we're very early in the
stellar year and we'll start to slow
down about that same time but not much
but what it does cut you off from if you
could control dark energy to slow the
expansion that would give you access to
much more materials I don't think we
really prolong you of civilization much
though because unless you're bringing
those materials home and limiting your
population you're really just increasing
the size of your civilization rather
than how long it's gonna last
buzz yes what's the best braking method
for interstellar spacecraft one that
doesn't require any fuel with the best
one in exodus fleets in the generation
ship series we looked at a couple of the
methods you can use slow down
magnetically slowing down that's a very
good approach hitting particles with
like a big sail to slow down that's good
approach whatever doesn't cost you fuel
and be done relatively quickly and your
best bet of course is something involves
the whole breaking of something
reasonably self-replicating that can set
up shop around a store and start you
know hitting you with laser beams to
slow you down like the steles of concent
and we did discuss that in exodus plays
micro mysterious do you believe that
what sone is doing but do you believe
that what sone is doing by trying to
capture antimatter is dangerous now
they're not producing very much of it so
we can start mass producing antimatter
would still cost right now cus it's like
a million times more energy to produce a
particle of antimatter than it contains
inside it if we all find a cheap
trans beauty no producing antimatter and
store yet mmm that is actually very
dangerous to the civilization especially
if it's something that anybody can do in
their basement is a war but the basic
resource I didn't say I'm gonna see
that's dangerous city more than basic
chemistry is dangerous so basic physics
is dangerous in the sense you could use
a lot of pay dangerous things with that
knowledge Victor Von Ian asks how do you
see humanity maintain the political will
to complete the type of extreme long
term projects featured on your channel
when that is a problem today no no if it
is a problem today um whenever we can
look at these things that's why I always
emphasize a Dyson swarm is something you
build as you go like a railroad system
or a highway system you don't build at
all at once we try to emphasize projects
that while they do acquire vast amounts
of resources mmm and manpower do not
acquire any like it a unified total
effort he would be neat if we could do
that but it is entirely necessary as to
call cultural nowadays we're a lot more
objectively speaking anecdotes aside
people I talk about how we you know we
don't very long looking or really
looking long into the future
we plan things out way more than our
ancestors did even relatively recently
and I think that people missed a lot
because so much the plane is being done
by this so that organization that does
it relatively quietly like your local
Township Trustees or something like that
they have plans without to fix their
roads for the next thirty years those
things like that as to whether or not we
have long-term capacity for things like
this we plan more than we used to and we
were building gigantic things like
pyramids and cathedrals there were often
you know generational projects I think
like a member how on the cathedral and
clone took to build but you know these
things can go on for generations if
people believe in the task they move
along and you know we've you have more
resources more people more live our
lives that I think it becomes a lot
easier to do those multi-generational
tasks
it's obviously always a concern though
if you're busy fighting each other was
very little gets done if you're stable I
don't know you have to be stable enough
that you can contemplate long-term
projects but that
the key thing there is that stability
libertarian Lennis Leninist rayon's are
used interesting combination oh you said
sometimes that you live before it really
starts with space exploration I'm better
to be live in the 24th century than the
20th century or the 19th century or the
18th century but probably cool it'll be
alive in the 22nd century yeah
definitely um I would love to see some
of these things get built and that's why
when people ask what technology I most
wants to invent that most like to live
to see I always say radical life
extension but yeah I'd love to see a lot
of these things get built and get made
and thing is if I was live in the 23rd
century I'd be talking about how we need
to be moving on past these orbital rings
and basic colonization do something else
new too so there hopefully will always
be Maga so what time you live in things
potentially on the radar that makes you
wish you alive a century from now as
opposed to being really glad that you
are alive now and not next century or
wish you were like the previous century
in the golden age that that has passed
you know you see a lot of the died north
genre of books and series where things
are just getting slowly worsened Akane
right now we live in a time where things
getting better all the time and I hope
there won't be a time of decay at the
point of future but you know this grass
always Kasim clinic we know a century
from now and if it doesn't that that's
the bad sign no one asks what is your
favorite sci-fi movie Blade Runner only
is still my favorite the original that's
that's definitely my favorite science
fiction movie and it had a lot of good
competition and because it combines a
couple I love favorite fundings in in in
fiction I'm a big fan of detective film
noir movies from like the 40s and 50s -
Thank You Ben for your vaz mmm
cabeza Stu Tomo asks could you do a
video in the future of politics like
what future ideologies could exist what
kind of economic systems we could have
in the future probably not if I did
touch on top of like that it would be
only in the most fake general details of
discussing how this or that technology
might alter how we had you know act like
we an interstellar empire as we talked
about how you probably had to go for
much less the essential
system if you're trying to do you know
if you got a light like limits
you can't talk faster speed of light and
you're trying to run a Empire of a
million words you have to be very
decentralized obviously to do that and
so things like that I'm going to discuss
but that not a dedicated to it because
we talk about those as a byproduct of a
specific technology and otherwise we
stay is far away from politics ideology
and and similar topic as we can because
it's so easy to get up on soapbox about
stuff like that and I really do not like
when folks do that so I try not to do it
myself
David began asks what is your view of
the universe as relating to whether or
not it is deterministic materialistic
mechanistic or combination of all views
I think by default I'm a compatible list
but you know quantum does does make
determinism or Matt a little bit
trickier as the materialistic
perspective if we talk about that from
the the old or philosophical concept
from a few centuries back I think that
one's not really involved with anybody
anymore it just doesn't fit too well and
too you get very altra reductionist of
times with that but that might be just
as we talk normal girl we don't cover
politics on here I tried to opine too
much about philosophy I thought so we'll
leave that to the philosophers Durrani
Thank You Johnny do you read arts on
solo stolen generators in residential
power applications the idea there being
the Ukrainians are stolen heat engine
and we did discuss that concept a bit
more on colonizing mercury if you want
to get the details on it but I do like
thermosolar in a lot case a lot better
than then straight solo photoelectric
effect like we have a solar panels where
it's more efficient obviously it's way
better but just in general it has to be
a lot more durable and you don't have to
deal quite as much the battery issues
especially using something like um your
molten salts that can stay warm or stay
hot for relatively long periods compared
to the day because then you don't have
that big you know late night drop-off in
power
[Music]
jameson 1776 ass any thoughts on the
recent findings that say the universe is
expanding fast and originally thought
and how this could affect life of the
universe we should do a big rip episode
sometime in terms of cosmology I'm I
don't usually like to do raw cosmology
episodes where we could look at that in
like civilization at the end of time um
maybe a civilizations the end of time
big rip episode um not sure that's not a
bad idea if they've been I haven't seen
them adjusting that figures up or that
much that I'm a call but I might not
even pay much attention we are slowly
trying to track down the speed at which
the universe is accelerating in its
expansion or and assuming that it is
accelerating I don't know if that's 100%
pinned down yet though that does seem to
be where the consensus of evidences
that's not just expanding but expanding
faster than it was before we don't know
what drive stronk energy so it's kinda
hard to say if that's a temporary effect
a total effect or how much that is as to
what effect would have on life obviously
in a big rip so know you have a
relatively short period of time where
the expansion is going so fast that
actually starts to tear apart galaxies
and very soon thereafter it would start
to tear apart planets and then even
atoms and that's actually interesting
effect when it's the quark level because
when you rip two quarks apart with
energy you get two more pairs of quarks
so I get a universe a big bang across
the place again which series what might
have happened in the first place
although I don't know if you can
actually rip quark support what dark
energy that way but if you could when we
say the universe came to a point like
object in in Big Bang Theory that that's
the observable universe we don't know
that the entire universe might not be
infinite in size and the chunk that
we're in expanded from a small point but
that there's an infinitely small points
that expanded or outside of our visual
range so you could have something like
dark energy think we're at rips
everything apart and then you give
basically a Big Bang reset if you would
um might be the only way you could do
FTL travel apex Tyrannis ass Isaac what
do you think of SpaceX is two-stage
fully reusable starship design they are
not planning on landing in the moon in
2024 separate of NASA now with it you
know where SpaceX rocket design is
concerned I'm always impressed by some
of the stuff they're doing but at the
same time
I I really actually more focus on what
we're going to do on the moon then how
we're gonna get they up which is not
intended as a backhanded compliment of
SpaceX what they're doing is amazing
stuff but I I tend to focus a little bit
less on the actual rocketry that gets us
there which is important stuff but less
of interest to me than what we would do
once you're up there so when we do need
another moving episode sometime soon in
fact I think it's on the poor if I had
already mentioned there was a pole
running right now on our community tab
and we'll let that run for I think
another week see which one comes up
ahead although I'll probably do more
than one episode out of those usually
the runner-up gets done - oh and Taylor
asks if we winced if we sent autonomous
self-replicating machinery to the moon
how long will it take for the moon to be
disassembled the thing with nanobots is
there's always a limit as to how quickly
can read things apart I think I've run
the numbers at some point in time very
loosely and usually take a pileup hold
it it is it is something it allows many
decades even even if you're like giving
the best hand away possible this thing
is doing it because they can't do it too
quickly or they all generate so much
heat doing it that they'll melt
themselves hmm although I suppose you
might let them go self up key to the
point that they are next actions heed
the plan up so much that expanded out
Ward mmm just you know basically
evaporated but a moon would have way
less gravitational binding energy than a
planet it goes up very quickly you know
plant with twice as much mass as as the
earth has a lot more than twice the
gravitational binding energy I camera
boy if that's he might be just a fifth
power but it's a lot more so the moon
wanes I an idiot of the earth Matthew
data mmm check what the gravitational
body energy of the moon was but loosely
speaking if you take the gravitational
binding energy of an object you know the
energy that's they open holding it
together which I think for the author so
our antenna xxx shows it sits in that
area and you then divide that by about
about how much you know per say a
thousand watts per square meter whatever
surface areas that's about as fast you
could run that so take its surface area
multiply it by a thousand in terms of
square meters and that's how many watts
and emits constantly and then divide
that binding energy by that would
how many seconds you can pretty much
dissemble that planet because that's
about as fast you do it without
overheating to a order of magnitude list
symbol Brent asks how likely do you
think that in about 30 to 50 years we
will have a stoning or maybe already
developed lunar industry and how big
would the impact of that be pretty big
um when you have a source of actual you
not just raw material but active
production industry that's outside of
what's gravity well I mean technically
the moon is in all its gravity or but
outside of all atmosphere that really
opens the door to to serious
conversation or space because our
biggest limitation right now is that so
much the material we get has begun dried
up through that gravity well and it is
the equivalent of hobble around on one
foot
well you know with the cell you you know
have accessed that it's more like be
able to run a marathon shouldn't peak
capacity so that's the kind of
differentially oh I do think we all had
that in the next 30 15 years but scaling
to say 9 sooner 9 asks do you have any
plans for an Upward Bound episode on how
we could become truly spacefaring extra
planetary especially a road map from
here to having robust industries and
settlements off planets so fly buzzing
around my head that's really distracting
me I think we probably would you a
roadmap episode I'm tempted to do the
NSS so the National Space society's
roadmap they released a upgraded version
of it updated voice of it not that long
back I wouldn't follow that exact one
but it's be a good one to look at it's
very solid very thoughtful I'm assuming
I remember in the right Road map I don't
know that when I say being upward bound
episode and that might actually require
its own sub series that would seem more
like the outward bound series but yeah I
think I think I would like to probably
look at that more probably that's
probably not a bad idea for series I
shall really fits in either upward bound
or outward bound though mmm I don't
think on that but probably very likely
to do something along those lines
Matthew a crow ass out of all of UFOs
which you want to either we do the most
or expand upon the original there's a
bunch I've wanted to V do I usually use
the flaw
three that I mean if I can add a lot of
new material I'm okay with me doing an
episode and I said I otherwise would not
redo an episode until I felt like my
speech impediment was safely worn down
the point that knives to the population
had no problem understanding me when I
opened my mouth I suppose I'm probably
at that point but we're not quite the
point of me doing these a lot of times
what happens though as we'll say there
was something you want to expand on and
we'll do episodes like that which one
would I most want to redo that would
that we haven't we haven't actually done
hmm
but at the moment the time travel
episode I'm redoing that one in January
so that was the next wound up on the
thing that I felt like we doing will
ending a year with a look at
interstellar civilizations and time and
how that will affect and I thought you
know there's the interesting thing on
there's so much interest all
civilizations have to do with FTL and I
thought that it would be fun to look at
that the time travel aspect that -
because so much of FTL faster than light
travel revolves around time travel - so
we did do a time travel and tachyons
episode way back at the being a year -
and I haven't wanted to revisit the FTL
series to kind of redo some of those
episodes battle and more detail so right
now the most wanted we do is the time
travel episode is all probably walking
on that script for that some more later
today or tomorrow um let's see
try 10 possess Isaac should the dormant
volcano under Yellowstone go off how
likely into what we would civilization
survive if at all
I think things we messed up for a
generation maybe - um in terms of I
don't think we'd kill most people off
but any kind of major thing like the
Dust Bowl had a huge impact on the
United States when that be a chord in
the authorities I hopefully the
authorities don't quote me on that but
any of those kind of effects this would
be much more than a dust ball that it's
gonna settle out the AO within I mean it
mostly said about the air within a year
or two and I think used to have most the
population left over at that point in
time and then it's just quickly question
of how quickly can you rebuild and
stabilize things could be a lot of
cultural shape and you might have had a
great loss of life but at most you know
someone's going to survive you
I'm relatively large number people would
survive and even if was really bad and
within a few centuries at the very most
you killed 99 so the population off and
turned everyone back and like techno
barbarians they'd be back on their feet
a few centuries be very different
civilization though
Matthew bon asks what technologies are
you looking forward to that you think
will be invented in your lifetime I
think we asked the Sofia radical life
extension technology and cliking
self-replicate ores clanking
self-replicate Oh is is a large or kind
of simplistic version it was the typical
narrow technology we look at and
probably more realistic and more near
term I think we got time for a couple
more questions but that was the end the
ones actually in the list my Martha I'm
no idea why someone just tried to call
me on Facebook
somebody just another Tom asked just
another human ask why all the NASA
planet photos such crappy quality taking
photos in space actually that's a good
question I asked when I was running the
observatory the the one we had for the
public that it was a very good
observatory at Kent State when I was in
grad school on Fridays we do an open
viewing to the public and we zoom in on
plans to be like wow you know not so
much of Dalian we see a 12 inch
telescope we could pretty good sized
things like Saturn or malls then they
asked they look at a star we zoom in on
that stone they say wow nothing's
changed you know it's just Tyler dot
still hangin asuka's well it's it's a
very tiny dot cuz it's a really far away
just has to be really bright there's a
resolution issue that comes into play on
these things and trying to take a
photograph of a planet is a lot hold on
it sounds like we talked about how good
a telescope Hubble is I I'm going to
find out who would keeps trying to do
that so I got thrown by that um
someone's trying to call me on Facebook
that do not know um photo is planets
Hubble telescope could not even see the
moon landing site right now that's you
know very powerful telescope it could
not make out the moon landing stuff and
that's on the moon when we talk about
sail you know satellite surveillance
photos and those are relatively grainy
too you know they can let you see you
know a car on the ground those being
taken from like 80 miles up in the air
they're not that high um you have to go
up to like 80 trillion miles they'd be
looking at something around another
stall for instance when these things are
doing flybys and the gravity they are
getting one or two passes tops they're
trying to photograph the entire planet
and they're usually not in a low orbit
window passing by and they are usually
relatively or technology and that's why
those are relatively bad images as to
something you know tones taking photos
through telescopes it's not gonna be
that impressive for quite a while the
author thank you the author as what is
the silliest episode you remember doing
my personal favorite is colonizing the
Sun oh yeah sure here well now you put
in my head I would actually say that
that was the silliest episode although
the clock tick observes its own degree
not because they are silly so how we
adjust the matter because they'll have
fun to do stupid aliens that was one my
favorite silly episodes but I have to
enjoy the alien civilizations episodes
the most cubm asks question thoughts
about mister beasts planting 20 million
trees and how much of a difference could
it do I don't know how much co2 would be
locked up in 20 million trees I'm
guessing probably a few tons of peach so
you not be potentially a hundred
megatons that's all the tiny amount but
trees are not well trees themselves only
a temporary carbon storage and of course
all caulk install just so you know
temporary but in general you better try
to lock that up into the ground so if
you're building up a thick alejo soil
out of that for instance or putting in
the DES or things like that that's a
pretty good carbon sink Thank You
Warhawk me is the answer to everything
42 yes the answer to everything life the
universe and everything is 42 okay our
last question for the day where will 435
ask what do you think of the DoD's
recent report on climate change the
National Security
threat and in particularly a few of the
rise of in plagues you know that's
really more of a biology question I'm
not an epidemiologist I have a cousin
who's an epidemiologist um and I
questioned a whole um but I mean I don't
know why warming itself would actually
might mean well a lot of life-forms do
you thrive battling in a warmer
environment but you know I've not seen
that report to see exactly how they are
phasing that and that is kind of a semi
political question so I would just say
in general anytime you disrupt a system
you expect to have many changes and as
well all those changes are gonna be a
little chaotic I suppose you could have
an increase in plagues you would have a
lot of biological changes if you see
differently change the plants
temperature up or down but because
you're shifting around the D violence
now those are always you need motion to
but a very quick change will be a lot
more disruptive but then that's
something to keep in mind we talked
about doing a lot of geoengineering
things like sea steady and opening up
solar shades or building artificial
continents is that sort thing has a big
big impact we're gonna head and go and
wrap up I think you've probably all been
seeing the the upcoming episodes list as
we've been talking today is that's on
the screen but you're listening on the
audio only stuff we put that up later on
this week's episode is gonna be real
technology and that will get followed up
with by a video on nebula that has to
look at whether or not we could develop
technology without file which I think
was one of the poll runner-ups not that
long back and the idea kind of stuck in
my head while I was playing the video
for air technology so I put that
together do we get there cyber security
that will have some long-term looks but
it'll be more in your terminal our ways
and then the episode after that is
spaceship design that should be a fun
one to look at and we will be having
those upcoming on Thursday the first one
and we also be having a discord after
our session you can use the link in the
episode description here to go and visit
that please remember to turn on your
push-to-talk option where you go join us
stay up I will probably about 10 15
minutes while I'm in there and we'll
just carry on your questions they are
that's just you talk or type and throw
the question out they all respond to it
so alright with that said we're gonna
let in close out
Thank You Aaron for joining
and we'll see you on Thursday so that
wraps up our live stream for today but
we are not done yet
as mentioned we'll be doing an
after-hours live voice chats over on the
SFI a discord solo linked in the video
description where you can keep asking me
questions live for an hour or so I'll be
in there shortly after the show ends but
if you miss me feel free to leave
questions in the comments on this video
and I'll try to get back in this evening
to answer them I hope to hear from you
they are but if not I'll see you
Thursday
you
