on this show recent episodes and general
science Concepts and news we'll be
starting in just a moment and feel free
to put your questions right into the
chat for our Moz to come and screen and
please try to keep them clear legible
and understandable as always we welcome
super chats to help support the show and
you can also find links to our websites
and other options in the episode
description with all that said welcome
and let's get started
good afternoon everyone and welcome to
science and futurism with Isaac Arthur
for monthly live stream q a as usual
we'll be taking questions directly from
the audience and our friend my escrow
and my wife Sarah will be relaying those
to us today hello Hi how are you today
doing pretty good I I actually got
distracted Rio about 30 seconds later
coming out of the stream because I um
original picnic Halloween we've just
gotten one of the folks in the chat at a
comfortable picnic and they uh had a
much more interesting fare available to
them always they forgot to bring
anything on the resort so we run a
resort uh every Osman Resort I think
there was like one pan of rigatoni but
otherwise it was nothing but desserts if
you wanted a dessert first it was a
diverse dessert first Heaven yeah the
kids were happy they loved that I was
happy until the sugar kicked in and I
wanted to go oh
but then um yeah I was just the kids
love the slip and slides
anyway good afternoon everybody and
welcome to our monthly live stream q a
where we'll be taking your questions
directly from the audience with a key
short digression so and if we seem a
little zoned out today it might because
we just had dessert yeah a plate of
brownies for every table and have them
got up and I hate them all myself
because you haven't got to wait so I am
well sugared go ahead space but the best
dessert was the one where they had some
fresh apples they cut it up and they're
like peanut butter there's like a peanut
butter fluff of some sort I was gonna
say pudding but it was some sort of and
caramel I'm not allergic to people
it was delicious
so we have a question from Albert
Jackson related to picnics yeah they use
the picture poster yes yes can it be a
picnic if everybody just brings dessert
though a picnic implies lunch yeah but
it had fruit that was what I was
Googling of getting late to the stop the
show so I saw that question and the
answer is oh but yes it qualifies as a
picnic period there's no particular
Cloud lunch used to be outside so so the
next time we should just take cake get a
little picnic basket and go for the
exactly picnic with cake only
laughs
Marlon May says given all that you know
about the firming Paradox would you say
that projects like seti are not worth
the time or energy
um well first there's two cities right
there was study a which is just the
concept itself they search for
extraterrestrial intelligence with the
Atkins wall and then there's the seti
Institute which the best known group
that does it uh the two are not quite
synonymous and indeed you often have
folks who disagree with the methodology
on that
um including at the study Institute I
should say because there's a lot of
different scientists who involve that
project to have differing viewpoints on
how you should do it uh but I would say
that it's never not a good idea to look
for alien life or other signals
I just don't really expect us to ever
find any signals so it's you gotta
listen because you don't know and we
have gotten some good astronomy out of
it you don't know when that might change
you know if we do it for a few centuries
don't eat anything great but you always
kind of want to be listening anyway just
to be on the safe side kind of series I
don't really want to have to send too
much active messaging out to is you
never know for sure who might be
listening and while they shouldn't be in
any way hostile to us and probably
already know where we were if we did
anyway because well spending signals for
over a century and been around a lot of
that with obvious bios controls I really
am not expecting that to be a path that
produces much so you know at the risk of
saying some folks I know it used to be a
government program back in the 70s in
the gods budget cut uh by the testimony
folks like Michael Holt and others who
are on the rare or side before me Camp
which is where I'm at too and I happen
to have agreed that it wasn't exactly a
good use of funds but I would not have
cut their funding all the way I think I
would just kept it trim and lean uh you
know it doesn't hold us to be spending a
few million dollars a year listening to
the skies that way uh but no I wouldn't
be invite building a multi-billion
dollar probe at this point either
well it's hard to choose which question
is going to go next I'm going to skip
around a little bit
um we have a question from Robert Hawk
do you think there is any possible way
for humans to explain a non-sentient
intelligence like the one in the Insight
book what it means to be sentient
oh um
how would you explain something that
isn't sentient that it was sentient how
do you explain to something that's blind
uh that you can see I don't know that
you necessarily could you can come with
analogies but I think in a lot of those
cases the only way you could double
check that would be to find something
that wasn't sentient describe sentience
to it and see if it could give you an
answer that was like a chat GPT
rearranging of the words that was a that
implantation was talking about but uh I
don't think you guys have to be able to
experience a concept to understand the
concept I'll explain to other people but
by and large it really helps so I'm
going to guess the answer that would be
technically no but for all practical
purposes yes so
I'd like to thank crossover Maniac for
your Super Chat and the question is have
you ever heard about Dynamic sailing
being used in conjecture with Magnetic
sails to accelerate a spacecraft to two
percent light speed
um
as with anything with sailing there's no
real reason why you couldn't do it
faster than that too the one we usually
talk about on the show the most uh as I
would say the best one is the laser
beaming technique that's where you just
kind of concentrate a beam with sunlight
or photons from a direct laser beam onto
a sail very far from us and the idea
being there that you put way more power
per your unit of sale
but also that as you get further from
the Sun you're not really dropping off
in strength as quickly you can keep a
beam on something for you know a few
light days out at least and at that
point in time you have a very good push
that's photon is not really your best
source of uh yogini and Russia when
you're at low speed though and so we
tend to look like ionized particles or
magnet you know saw the wind you can at
least you have to show the wind speed
off of that
so and that could be very fast with
hundreds of kilometers a second
um
so yes right you could potentially begin
to two percent of light speed with some
of the tricks that combine these things
I've heard so many different versions of
how you do that one would be you you
capture them to get their speed and you
grab those ions and run through a fusion
plan like a backward piece on Ramjet
instead of it coming in as you go out in
space and grab them you're grabbing them
as a covering hitch from behind so
you've got about the same speed anyway
um there's a lot of different techniques
for doing it but at the end of the day
you should be able to get up to at least
one percent of live speed or better
using some of those sailing techniques
and I think you could probably do a lot
better if you don't mind dumping energy
into it so I think Astro void brings up
an important question related to this
and that is how would space varying
citizens standardize time even with that
light lag and relativity
that's one of those trickier ones
because on the one hand you say well
let's just keep using Earth time and I
think you know if somebody has to do a
lot of phone conferences or video
conferences even today even with all the
little pieces of technology to say oh
great I can match your calendars for you
I still have means that get missed
because one of us said oh I yeah I
thought you won eastern time I thought
that was four houses ahead of us as it
turns out it's not or uh Daylight Saving
oh I forgot about that my country
doesn't do those and uh well why do you
guys still do that here in Ohio right
now whatever time is noon the actual top
of the sun is like 1 30. so 1 30 in the
afternoon is when noon physically of
course here right now
um and there's a part of me it says we
should just go ahead as a civilization
right now and give up on having uh you
know the individual time zones like that
in favor of just having times of day
Morning Noon eating that are localized
and then using one 24-hour clock that
everyone just agrees on the UTC I think
is what the usual code is that the
universal time code and the flip side of
that you could use that for you know
habitats too you say well this is all
some other Soft Spring happens on these
dates but it's not glued to the official
Earth count or 24-hour days and
365.25 some days right for a year and
you might see that drift and just like
well we still keep the old Earth candle
but we dropped that Court over today no
more leap years for us or something like
that
um the flip side of that though is that
you don't necessarily need to have that
because the computer can translate all
that stuff so easily and it would make
it a lot of sense if translation
technology got to the point that when
you're talking to people who are like
centuries away from you it just pretty
much automatically changed all the time
codes to the binary equivalent when I
was busy changing all the language so
you could understand each other since
the odds of you understanding somebody
who was on a Planet 100 light years away
from us and have been there for a couple
centuries and vice versa if you've been
letting your languages drift would be
like trying to listen to Old English
which is and I don't mean like
Shakespeare Old English like old old
English which doesn't even sound like
well yeah it does not sound the least
bit like Modern English
and I think that's probably the key
there is it'd be so easy to do
translation of time codes translations
of languages
Etc that that might just be glued in
automatically and you might even have to
the point where you're talking to
somebody live as long as you could get
in some cases and it's just busy
changing their face and lips around so
that it looks like what they're saying
is thinking out with the words they
better be translated for them so they
say something that deep fakes their
appearance their lips stays synced to
whatever they've changed that to you to
make it easy for you to understand those
are the kind of technologies that
probably only like 10 or 20 years out in
terms of our ability to do them and so
they're probably going to jump in there
before we get into space And so there's
that question which way do we go do we
Ultra standardize and then go out in
space and it stays there or do we do the
exact opposite give up on trying to
standardize languages and time codes and
that follows Us in the space too and I
don't know which one it would be but I
bet you if you ask in 20 years we'll
know
well some people are asking sooner than
that and Marlon May wants to know if we
have considered attending the world
science fiction convention a year from
now in Glasgow Scotland I did not know
that was happy well if I did what you're
going to be saying these things in
questions you always want to make sure
you put the date and time in that way
you can have it plugged for free so you
start to say the world Glasgow or your
sci-fi fail on data X
I think it's a free ad
um probably not you'd have to convince
my wife that we want to go flying
overseas right now what no no no that's
not you you have to invite yeah which
they did actually include that my wife
is the travel quarter of our household
and uh so we are definitely overdue for
a trip but uh that would be the one
that's hard to convince me to actually
get on the plane
um but uh
curiously enough um
thinking of Scottish sci-fi Idols I
finally got to meet Alastair Veno it's
not that long back on a little Zoom
conference was making me think of that
um he's been my favorite sci-fi router
for a long time and uh well I got sad
news about updating a book he did he was
gonna sequel to after all he was exactly
as interesting in person virtually so to
speak as you would think uh and I was
right about my guess that he is actually
a techno optimist he writes very
dystopian sci-fi but he himself is very
upbeat about the future of technology so
nice guy and if you never read Alastair
Reynolds I I will say he is the best
Scottish science fiction writer period
there you go since he's on my top five
list of sci-fi items who have lived
that's probably true
well lulana wants to know if there are
any options inside known physics for
sci-fi style Holograms and volumetric
displays
um yes
I would say hmm
yes I would say the biggest thing on
that is that you have to decide are you
talking like a um a Robert picardo style
like Voyager solid hologram which would
be a little bit harder and uh oh we're
just talking about something that kind
of walks around inside your vision and I
would say the big one for just a visual
would be that assume inside the next
Century someone's gonna successfully put
together either a contact lens that
comfortably flips on your eyeball or
they're going to find a tiny little chip
that can just put right into your visual
cortex that lets them set an input to
that and they can do augmented reality
that way and that way you don't actually
have to mess around with the Holograms
at all they just you see them and that
would be the same for a phone call
something like that it should just
pumped right into it on your contact
lens or otherwise now the flip side you
could also have a sequence of projectors
throughout a room that so as they're
small and able to follow the person who
they'll you know white look at could
cast these into an image them that felt
like they were looking at a hologram in
that room so it's only when you start
having multiple people in the room that
gets complicated from different points
of view
um and I think this is something we saw
in uh The Naked Sun the second robot
novel by Isaac Asimov speaking of asthma
um
well they usually do their phone calls
you know they don't like to be the same
physical room as each other but they do
phone calls to each other all the time
including when they're walking when
someone carries a hologram projector
with them one of the robots and so that
that just it seamlessly would plug the
Hologram of you into the environment the
other force was in and vice versa so
that you felt like they were just in the
room talking to you but they're just a
little bit fuzzy on purpose so that you
knew they weren't physically agree with
you and I think that could very easily
be how that goes and there would be that
question of do you prefer hologram
that's so realistic you can't tell us
they are or one where it's really
obvious that they're not quite actually
in the room and that's probably gonna be
one of those your mileage may vary you
know choose to upgrade the reality both
the little slide or toggle on the thing
so yes there's been a lot of stuff with
augmented reality with Holograms yeah
the classic Sci-fi sense
uh we can see it's it's there's things
that could make it more possible more
easy but the practicality versus
augmented reality I'm not so sure about
well Miami's last capitalist gave us a
Super Chat and he has a comment which I
think is really fun he says I'm really
looking forward to having to have space
suit will travel I'm happy there's a
place in the future for the lone
Adventurer in his fancy suit and his
personal uh faithful personal spaceship
yeah I mean a full disclosure he
actually wrote me an email today said he
hooked up the old uh Have Gun Will
Travel DVDs that's partially based off
of
um the time of having for the Reddit
Community uh that is a great book if you
haven't actually read it go ahead and do
so it is inspired by the episode but it
is not actually you know specifically
about that sci-fi novel half space suit
will travel is one of the funnest sci-fi
books uh I would say that I've had
occasionally behind them of all people
uh he certainly gives us a lot of good
ones to write so it was last week for
Starship Troopers too
um so it was definitely getting to build
more thoughtful content sometimes and uh
that was what I was listening to while
we were down that conference in uh not
Eastern the other a couple months back
uh but uh I hope everyone enjoys that
I'm looking for that episode too so
shout out to Albert Jackson thanks for
tuning in again he said last time he was
tuning in from the country of Georgia
during the last live stream and today he
is back in his home and has two
questions one in Starry Messenger Neil
deGrasse Tyson talks about the overview
effect how would the majority of people
experience this when space exploration
expands change society was that the full
question I was asking about that's
question one okay uh uh so uh welcome
back from Georgia it's actually funny it
wasn't a we'll ask the kids sometimes
you know to name me some country is name
me some states named me some uh you know
uh counties Etc and uh Geo uh had said
Georgia uh country and uh of course it's
an interchangeable one yes because he's
got the state too it's like you are
technically correct he does a lot of
those so yeah well we're just glossing
over that oops
but um the uh
let's see the overview effect is the
idea that when you get up in space when
you're looking at from way up there
right that you and this is kind of a
noted psych you know psychological
effect that we've kind of documented I
suppose just something purely poetic
that when you're looking at the whole
planet that way from so far away you
still kind of give you a broader mindset
about Humanity you'll move an
existential thought and you give this
effect we like up on top of a mountain
or things like that too I think because
you see so much of it it kind of makes
you think too uh to a wider view I do
not think that that would last very long
of people up there you know it's like
this big Majestic personal event I have
just climbed up this mountain and looked
over around the world yes that's going
to make you think differently for a bit
uh same as going out tripping looking at
Giant waterfall and being impressed by
that wood too and while it is a little
bit different to look at the whole
planet like that at once I do not think
that's going to cause and across the
board deep psychological change to
everybody
now the second question was have you
ever traveled outside of the country
before
and we can both answer emphatically yes
yeah yeah so uh the first time I
traveled outside the country was to go
from boot camp to Germany uh and then
from there I went and saw almost all of
Europe as well as the Middle East so
I've been to many countries in the
Middle East I
wasn't there on travel at the time I
went to a lot of faced in Europe it was
a lot of fun I've been to some other
places too uh I used to ride the
railroad around in Europe when I was
stationed in um north of Frankfort in a
place called Geeson I would just get on
the railroads on weekends or four-day
passes and just kind of see how far I
could go riding to some place then find
my way back uh as opposed to just trying
to visit all the tourists trap cities
the same everywhere you know you go find
something it's like more like a real
authentic
place that not everything is is the big
Metropolis of the airport or the train
station and so I think I did manage to
hit unfortunately every country in
Europe there was something that would
have been like passing through and
grabbing a cup of coffee you know so uh
a lot of traveling a lot of fun and I've
been to many countries of most of the
countries in North America but I look
forward to convincing Isaac to get back
on the plane and take me to some other
continents yeah I suppose I should
qualify that but I said
the first time I left the country was
not actually Equity to Canada sorry to
Germany let's go to Canada which I've
been to many many times Niagara Falls
about a two-hour trip to the east of
where we're at here and I would
absolutely recommend that and I always
say to go to the Canadian side if you
can back when I first started going you
could go just on driver's license to get
much more
security minded about that these days
use your passport but it is pretty on
the clean side but there's also a lot of
fun there's a really great bike trail
from Niagara Falls East that we took the
one time that was actually a lot of fun
trip but we got really wet just right
here on the edge of it that's true well
that's because it was raining the day
that we ended up in general yeah we look
forward to doing that in the summer when
it was warmer yeah we were wearing snow
suits winter coats and raincoats and
still getting wet and goes all the way
through but moving on we have a super
chat here uh name not provided and the
question is the pan cosmorio Theory
Builds on the ecological thermodynamics
Theory to explore the possibility of
human life and other organisms living in
any part of the universe
I actually don't know what the question
is did you interpret what the question
was I I'm trying to see that see over
here
the pan cause Moya Theory Builds on
ecological thermodynamics Theory to
explore the possibility of human life
and other organisms living in Nepal
Universe okay I think I might be able to
kind of guess where that's going the
thermodynamics one you guys remember
from a headline a few years back was
that somebody had done a paper this has
done a paper showing that um we might
expect a biologists to go by uh just
having the most efficient way to use
energy be kind of like into becoming a
life form uh so that you might have
developed um developed life inevitably
just because it becomes the most
thermodynamically optimized um 4matic
intake
um that was a great paper I don't
remember the exact specifics of the math
right now but they weren't decent it has
had a lot of criticism though about
being able to hand wavy on something so
don't just take that part as a given but
then I presume the the follow-up that is
saying would we just take for given that
any place that life could exist life
will eventually exist uh either
naturally or through something like
terraforming of those places or coming
along with us and I'd say that that has
a certain
a certain appeal to it as a concept I
wouldn't say it's it's it's wrong but I
would guess that it's
it really needs a lot more work to be
solidified some actual more examples and
of course the real key would be if this
was the case we should be able to find
that on like virtually everything you'll
buy us to so you know that we should
find life everywhere if that was the
case so this person
is don't forget your sunscreen and I
actually thought it was a hack for a
moment because we are planning to go
swimming after the live stream today and
I literally had just gotten a text from
another friend saying don't forget the
sunscreen I forgot mine and I would like
to use you yeah it was in Georgia
no it was Florida or was it like thirty
dollars
yeah so don't forget sunscreen says what
do you think about the idea of renaming
Earth Terra to fit with the standard way
of naming planets after Roman gods I
would be completely okay with that idea
because I'm a big 40K fan and they know
it's called Tara and I just did that
planet is described in every piece of
fiction on it as as an unmatchable hell
Planet uh yeah it still sounds so
awesome to me
I would give points to Chris Wright he's
uh he's an author for the black library
for the description he gives of that
planet it is perhaps the most accurate
you could monopolis description albeit
of a dystopian one I have ever seen
because he doesn't lowball his numbers
the way that uh Asimov or anyone writing
the Star Wars series for instance ever
does where like many billions of people
on this planet-wide city skyscrapers and
my hotel and which almost a trillion
people live and say well the math would
say that would be much higher so lots of
points to him for actually doing that
math correctly I think that uh
I think that I can't remember what the
question was anymore yes I'm often
renaming the player Tara but I feel like
you would need to make it at least 90
more Grim dog for that to be appropriate
isn't it already terra firma yeah
yes so so it's just I use the name for
the planet coins the old Greeks or
Latins or whatever it is I can't
remember which one Enrico fermay said
thank you for your Super Chat he says
thank you for continuing to make some of
the best content on the net to keep us
all dreaming of the possibilities of the
universe your videos and streams Inspire
others to dream and explore cheers thank
you very much Enrico and cool usernames
Isaac Weaver says if hypothetical black
dwarf Supernova do eventually happen
could their remnants result in a small
burst of star formations far later than
the death of the last traditional stars
um probably not because a black dwarf
would be so
stepping back a little bit we have two
ways we primarily two major ways we get
Supernova one is the big style go boom
one that we all know about the other is
the white dwarf go boom and that's
because it hits the Sutton limit and
goes blam and we you know virtually all
of its mass if not all of it is like Jet
and send away leaving no Remnant behind
there's some thought they might get
zombie stars in some cases but the idea
that's why I could use the standard
cannons other galaxies they hit a
certain exact mass and blow up a certain
amount of exact energy and that tells
you pretty close you can use to be like
that's exactly how far away that was
um so that's what happens to the white
12 goes boom now for something I've
gotten to the black dwarf stages cooled
down an awful lot
and because temperature is actually a
factor in uh in when they go boom you
could cause a black dwarf even when it's
been dead for a long time this is a
white dwarf didn't have that much mass
kept cooling down to go boom
my mind's dying over there it was
apparently what I'm saying is very funny
so
here here's the problem hold the thought
because we've been working with the
children on learning read they're
working on expression and you keep on
saying go boom as though it's just a
casual thing and I keep on waiting to
jump in and say go boom it went boom and
you keep on go boom go boom it goes boom
go boom so use the Expression so
so a blue dwarf that's been cooling down
into a uh into a slowly turning into a
white dwarf and then you know Red Dwarf
goes blue dwarf goes white dwarf slowly
calming down to its black dwarf if you
throw Mass on that even when it's
completely cooled down if you throw the
right amount of Mouse on it it's going
to go boom
and the problem is though that in this
kind of setting you say what what what's
Mickey cause to do star formation at
this point and the the only reason I say
maybe kind of yes is because whatever
finally put all that mess out to make it
go boom uh had to have been something
nearby so that kind of implies there
actually is something lying around that
could do that still uh I don't think the
space being pretty swept out but uh yes
that is a possibility uh the opposite
case applies with black holes because
they start to die they get brighter and
brighter and brighter so you can
absolutely live around one of those so
lots of options on these things
most of which result of them going boom
Timothy Kuiper says what effect would a
Carrington effect have on today's
technology economy or Society
um it's not tiny but at the same time
I wouldn't expect to see me I mean you
get a coronal mass ejection it's going
to mess with everything we've got in
terms of satellites in terms of
ground-based power especially the US's
power grid because we put one up early
on and it was an amazing great thing at
the time and it's probably now one of
the most patchworked and and Cobble
together power grids out there because
we've been patchworking the same system
for longer so it is in some ways very
fragile but is also more robust I think
than some people realize
um
you
are not going to end civilization with
an extreme Chrono Mass objection uh
unless it's one that's so big it strips
all the atmosphere off because that
can't happen you get a big enough Chrono
message action and I'm doubting there's
ever been one of the solar system before
that level it could completely just rip
off the ozone layer rip out the whole
atmosphere and came down to it but then
as soon as that's over you know the
ocean starts to separate out again and
you get oxygen nitrogen released from
the ocean and from you know life on the
planets came and you get a new
atmosphere again
um to play you know more depleted you
know but it comes back and it would take
an extreme event like that to actually
strip the atmosphere off in any
situation besides that so all of our
stuff gets kind of scrapped for a bit
but it's not really all of our stuff
civilization does not fall in collapse
civilization just has a really rough
time that makes covid look popular on
the soft side but it is one of those
things where you're going from either a
week or two of disruption or maybe a
year or two of rebuilding that's how
your extremes on that one other than
again the atmosphere being ripped off
which is
a longer delay
so
the earlier question about magnetic
sales
and a Super Chat as well five dollars
thank you can you do an episode on the
magnetic sales topic and there's
apparently a paper available on the
Frontiers in science journal
um yeah right now before I came onto the
live stream I was putting together a lot
of topics for this image polls and I'm
sure everybody was watching the live
stream puppy also watches those image
polls you've probably noticed I started
doing a couple of months it's basically
what we do on Sundays when there's not
something else like this going on and
I've attempted to actually run some
additional ones because you may have
also noticed that's one of the most
popular ones into either a one minute
short video or a depio exclusive so uh I
might end up running more of those but
that's kind of become the way I do a lot
of them I I just try the topic out and
put up in a poll of some kind and
yes so my wife is making face happy to
remind me to stay off the camera which
is actually horror because I have a seat
right behind the camera
um
so uh I will see if I can find some kind
of image that would match that topic if
I can it's usually my first floor to
make sure there's actually visuals
available for the topic at all we'll put
it on one of the image bowls if not then
there won't be enough images to do the
topic and we won't do it so
unacceptable views thank you for your
Super Chat could you please list the
episodes you've done about machine
civilizations I'm intensely interested
in this subject and is very interested
if you are going to be making any more
in the future as well
um
machine civilizations I think
I'm trying to think we actually have one
that's a purely dedicated machine one
and it says a little bit of context is
any episode I do that's pretty far
future topic like if we're talking 4 000
plus years from now I've usually
assumed that whoever the main
protagonist is is
dubiously human uh like extra Galactic
Civilizations the the Assumption there
is that they're all regular people like
you and me still around but almost other
people were talking about really all
um everyone in the last planet until we
actually all
you kind of try to put in more human
context the last Plan B the episode from
earlier this month that's assumed to be
post biological and I don't really talk
about machine civilizations too much
because I don't
view that as any different than an alien
civilization or a human one that kind of
context it's just what do you made
together what are you stitched out from
uh we do talk about AI sometimes uh like
paperclip maximizer that's a machine
civilization episode
um machine Rebellion is one AI run
government is one
um
but otherwise we usually touch on it in
another episode
um cyborg armies is a machine based one
too for that matter yeah so I would say
let's let's go for one more question
um I would say
those would be the main ones I love we
got coming up that's going to be on
image for at least is aliens versus Ai
and that would be a machine civilization
discussion too so
with that it's time there's probably
more you have to look at the chronology
go ahead uh well we we're going to start
a whole new topic when we come back from
the break and so we'd like you to grab
your drink and your snack and drop your
questions in the chat so that we can
work them into the second half and we'll
see you in a few minutes
well I want to break grabbing a drink
and a snack it's a great time to get
more questions into all moderators and a
great time to answer another question
from last month from thought Criminal
what is your opinion of Robert nazik's
experience machine thought experiment
how far away do you think the technology
to replicate any experience is and what
all its implications
The Experience machine is a thought
experiment of a machine able to
replicate any possible experience so
they can stimulate a pleasurable
response for instance and then asks us
if people would prefer that over the
real deal I tend to suspect we're a good
ways off from something interchangeable
with our real experience but getting
closer every day and that it is doable
and maybe inside this next century
for my part I tend to take the attitude
that if you can't tell virtual reality
from reality then the difference might
not matter anymore same as if you're
living in a simulated universe and
asking if real is the same as natural as
opposed to fabricated
more generally this is a form of neuro
hacking and the concern here is that
this might represent the ultimate drug
where you can just push a button
experience any degree of happiness that
you want
for the purpose of the thought
experiment we need not consider if this
will permanently damage the pleasure
centers of your brain or similar and
this has been constantly in sci-fi for
many angles at least back to the drug
soma from A Brave New World we can't
really answer questions like that yet as
we need to know more about how the brain
works but it's hard for me to say that
hitting a happy button is wrong in and
of itself especially as it hits the
question of what the purpose of life is
and if happiness is a legitimate primary
purpose for existing which has a lot of
the same problems personal survival as
our primary goal raises
for my part unsurprisingly I think the
answer is no to either that those are
important goals but not worthy of being
the Paramount let alone sole goal of
life
but let me suggest a possible Fermi
Paradox solution of this and not the
kind that ends in your Homeward becoming
slanesh's New Capital let's imagine
sometime the next couple centuries
someone invents this sort of neuro
hacking decent AI a fusion reactor VR
brain uploading and 3D printers or
Nanobots able to repair aging and wear
and tear on Machinery in people none of
which is very implausible or even all of
it and in this Next Century this is the
technology that easily allows
Interstellar colonization but it is also
the tech that allows you to instead
stick yourself in a small personal
spaceship and fly out to a small rocky
iceberg in space and suck out of its
Fusion fuel and raw materials and head
out into Intergalactic space on a slow
Journey you flip on your super happy
button consuming maybe just 10 watts of
power as some brain in a jar and with a
gigaton of Fusion fuel and raw materials
all to yourself there is no advantage to
reproducing now as you are semi-immortal
and would just need to share those
resources and that's enough fuel to run
you at that power consumption for a
billion billion years and there's enough
around materials in our solar system to
easily give everybody that much without
even having to start dissecting planets
plus many empty systems Beyond
now you've got a lifespan of a billion
billion years or more of Eternal
pleasure and you are out in the
intergalactic void where you can engage
in Ultra efficient computation have no
one with an untoward light years to
threaten you and no realistic chance of
being accidentally damaged by some chunk
of rock out there or preyed upon by
others especially with Hubble expansion
over the long term
if this sort of experience was as good
as the real thing is plausible
civilizations discover them about the
same time they would be able to
seriously colonize space and if they
went this path they would probably go
unnoticed by other civilizations during
the small window they were looking
before doing it themselves so maybe our
civilizations migrate as individuals and
small groups to deep Intergalactic space
I think this solution has some issues
with non-exclusivity as I think a lot of
people would actively avoid this Tech
and continue civilization but it is one
possible answer to the big question of
where all the aliens are
and speaking of questions let's get back
to our show and more of your questions
hi welcome back to part two of our
monthly live stream question and answer
session so let's get right back into it
we have a question and a super chat from
Freedom fiend does the technology exist
now to build a Dyson swarm and if it
does do you know how much it would cost
to build one oh geez that's a hard one
to answer because the answer is yes it
does uh however the the part that's
expensive is what type of Dyson swarm
you want to build and where are you
sourcing the material from and as an
example if I want to do
a 100 meter square meter satellite right
now that might run me a billion dollars
just to get up in space right in which
case I would need some huge amount of
money because
it was like 10 the 11th squared
it's gonna be somewhere on 10 to 23rd
square meters or Surface area there so
if you cover 100 you're gonna eat a
billion trillion times whatever that
billion dollars was it's a lot of money
on the other hand a tube of aluminum
foil costs uh there's probably about 10
square meters on one of those well like
three or four bucks on what's inflation
done to probably five yeah so uh with
inflation about five dollars for 10
square meters or 50 cents a square meter
which is really cheap you can think
about it but if you want to do a billion
trillion square meters and stuff that
still means that you're going to need
um
the billion trillion dollars
a very large number though
um so you know but the thing is you
don't build a Dyson swarm overnight it's
the same way you colonize I would say we
came across an empty continent and
though one day it's eventually have
cities all over it but you don't start
there you start there with a little C
port and you slowly build up right
um
and when you're in space and your money
on your Material off something like the
Moon it gets to be you know pretty cheap
to produce aluminum foil at some point
but then if you want to do more than
just simple power collection you'll
start building things like O'Neill
cylinders
how much would that cost
don't know could be really cheap if all
you got to do is design the thing until
some robots to make a whole bunch more
robots and then build it you know that's
that's that tricky thing we will talk
about that more on these Starship
factories episode which is next month's
sci-fi Sunday uh I just got done
recording that one actually as well as
the one right after that I'm sorry which
is the Sci-Fi Sunday episode which is
four towards and Industrial planets so
those will talk about a bit more about
that
change over the dynamic of what what
really mean by costs and economics in
that context
so we have another question here from
clash with recent observations seeming
to confirm the existence of phosphine on
Venus should Venus be considered a
near-term target of human exploration
and colonization along with the moon and
Mars
well I love the little screenshot that
was up there right there was the
wonderful atmospheric mining
um I had not heard that fast speed had
been conformed on me as I thought it was
kind of the other way around they
thought they hadn't found it but I don't
really keep too much stuff on that
because I don't really think it was a
bio Central which is the main interest
there
um
for seti anyway uh you might you might
mind that quite a lot if you want
phosphorus for various space forms
though should we be colonizing Venus
should we be spending more attention on
Venus
um what was the actual question again
that was the question okay good
um yes we should it is a better Target
in any ways than than Mars is uh but is
it a high priority to get out there and
colonize it hmm see all winter on Venus
episode there are things you could do
that would be much more habitable and
faster it's the easiest planet to
terraform
Sona Bella says could the future of toys
be an episode topic
yes I will actually write that down
although I should say that most my
future of some of the episodes tend
actually not to do all that great like
we did a the window off Main topics like
um the future of sports or the future of
pets I love the future of Pets episode
but it was not like one of the really
popular episodes that people always
remember so I took a little bit nervous
doing the future of type episodes
thought criminal says what is your
opinion of quantum immortality How
likely do you think it is that it's true
do you say Quantum immortality correct
Quantum immortality well I mean the
basic reasoning is is valid enough it
just depends on what the models right
for for those who don't know Loosely
speaking the idea is that if any
position in any state can happen again
in a in a finite Universal
very large Infinite Space of multiverses
or very long periods of time and space
you know an infinitely sized universe
that sort of thing then these things
should be happening again so you should
eventually pop back up again your exact
state right this is kind of the Boston
brain idea too
um and so it's not really a yes or no
the simple answer is if you got to be no
space this will happen right
the time scales and other skills
involved are insanely huge it wouldn't
just be you know you have situation
where you end your entire family who are
all identical would pop back up again
but with the caveat is that for every
time that happens there should be an
Untold trillions and billions and
jillions of times where uh not quite the
right thing came out and it could be
something with a little bit different
memories or you but you're missing your
nose your face your lungs any other
things like that because you're talking
about whether or not like if I shuffle a
deck of cards or if I take a whole bunch
of Scrabble tiles and dump them out
there what the odds of having a good
book is so dumping some Scrabble tiles
out and getting a ward that's what he
needs jumping Scrabble towels out and
getting the entire novel is physically
possible
most of the time it's not going to be a
bestseller to come out though so just
look at chat GPT
um wolf unpacked thank you for your
Super Chat contrast notion of
establishing colonies on other planets
for relocating large populations to
space or constructing a space station in
Earth's orbit which of these options is
more efficient
one more time uh if you're contrasting
the notion of establishing colonies on
other planets for relocating large
populations or constructing a space
station in Earth's orbit which one is
more efficient kind of depends on what
you're trying to make efficient in this
case
um moving large populations well like is
the goal to get rid of people you'd like
to not have around
because that is often better reason for
really large amounts of populations is
we don't want to kill you but we'd like
you to go away hello Australia you know
so
um and so that could be one of those
things or self-exile right A lot of
people came into the United States were
coming from places where they did not
want to be anymore and where they often
want welcome so that the context on it
has to always be what's the motivation
for moving them it is always always
going to be easier to build something in
orbit of Earth until this place is so
drowned habitats or all colleges or
everything else that the or you cannot
build there because you have to get a
permit for all the heat radiation your
civilizations give you off
until that time is reached you will
always be easier to build here
after that then the question becomes why
did you want to build here why do you
want to be away but not quite a way so
kype about habitats become very
attractive ones about other stars get
very attractive
if the goal for your people going into
Exile is that you would like to have a
gigantic habitat and then a billion
others for you to build afterwards then
another star is definitely what you want
to be looking at and so I think that
that's that being the question yes it's
easier to build around Earth but it is
an Inseparable question for what the
motivation is for the people building
the habitat or moving there we may not
always be the same people
have kind of a comment here from uh
someone that did not provide their name
and did a super chat I tried to email
you about the
panscomoria theory but I didn't know if
you got it and I could post it here in
the comments if you prefer to reply in
the Stream
I'm afraid I didn't have time to read in
the comments you can paste it if you
want that sounds like a familiar email
it when you email things to me there's
always a good chance that I've read it
but didn't have a chance to fully absorb
it or reply usually if it was something
if I emailed you back that means I had a
chance to really delve it but I do get
books emailed to me every day and I do
not read them joining them uh I try to
prioritize shorter messages so uh just
email it again if I give it to come
through it sounds familiar I will reread
it and reply this time
Warden thank you for your Super Chat
what do you think about the proposed
kardashev levels
um yeah I think I didn't have a chance
to watch yet but I'm pretty sure John
Michael Gautier just did a another
episode on why not we should get rid of
them
um
I
hate Dakota
I know I've done a whole episodes on it
and I finally after he was having people
say what K4 what's okay for what's K5
I've decided that there should be a
grabielian civilization that's got a
whole supercluster that's K4 anybody who
colonizes entire Hub of value that's a
that's a K5
um I don't like the use of the
karachovsky or to talk about levels and
scales of civilizations because one it
doesn't stack evenly you know as an
example K1 is a planet well what do you
mean what's what's using all the energy
of a planet what about a planet the size
of mars or super worth the the entire
order of managing different sunlight do
you mean that you're using it and if so
does that include agricultural you know
or weather uh versus running into your
solar panel grid uh same for stars you
know what they're already dwarfs that
are of like a thousand to brightness or
sun and other stars that have a million
times the brightness that's a scale of
age of nine orders of magnitude
K2 is that big that very useful it's
nine orders magnitude so saying I have a
new terminology for planets we got one
though this size that's a planet and
what's the size of Earth that's a player
because that's the scale difference
there you know a couple centimeters the
size of a planet and that would be your
K2 scale you know um Galaxy's a little
bit easier but then people wanted to be
even stiff like the second scale it says
10 to 16th Watts 10 to 26 watts and 10
to the 36 watts and that's that's really
fudging things to stuff it in there uh
we did do an episode looking at that and
ways you can make that a little bit more
useful but it's not a good scale for
trying to measure civilizations and we
have to remember what did Carter Chef
have in mind with that it was a seti
method right if you're trying to look at
a planet and see if it's got an
effective civilization on it you're
looking for something that could
significantly alter the natural spectrum
of that planet
do you remember the name of your episode
on the Kardashian scale
there's been a few so just Google card
shift scale and you can have a full
in-depth look at
that topic and then K2 is what
significantly Ultra is a star spectrum
and that's the real question on these
things it's not what's a civilization
look like when it's like that it's how
would we recognize if someone's
civilization had significantly altered a
planet a star or a Galaxy that's your
real culture scale it's for astronomical
seti it doesn't talk about anything
other than when you've done something to
change that to become a loud aliens or
uh moving on Rodney
Zealand I believe has sent a Super Chat
what is the confidence of the standard
candle with significantly different
metallic C profiles
um
metallicity we just had metallicity yeah
we just had
another problem with exact details but
it was issues with the Hubble of
expansion rate where one of our
predictions is is very firmly pretty at
about I want to say 72 kilometers per
second Megapolis and other ones putting
it more like 67 again and these are both
increasingly accurately pitting down on
this on a different number they're
becoming more and more certain that this
number or this number is is more
accurate before it was kind of a wider
spread and then but now we're nailing
down two different things that tends to
imply one of our all fundamental
measurements there is off in some
fashion we haven't picked up on yet
um how confident we are about any
involving standard candles though is
held remember earlier I was talking
about
um white wall screen Supernova and why
we had those as standard candle is you
could see a supernova a billion galaxies
away that's a wall
um you can see ones that were 10 billion
light years away you know that's great
you can see them and if you believe they
all have the same time they go off 1.44
solar masses Kaboom and that all of it
is blown up at once then you know that's
a very narrow range of Energies
uh but that could be thrown off by
things what material is inside it what
was the actual composition based on its
age uh did it get a whole bunch at once
or not and then the question of do they
actually blow all the way up or do they
leave a zombie style behind we don't we
don't know right if there's a merger
video on something like that where we
thought it was much tighter but turned
out it wasn't that can throw your
numbers off a lot and
there's so little we truly know in terms
like really accurate modeling of the
Dynamics inside of Stars based on their
Mass their churn rate what the
composition that star was when it joined
would it absorbed into a binary partner
there's so many things in there that
could throw them off that you just
cannot say yet those models are super
accurate they're good though they're all
good but at the same time the confidence
level
pretty confident that was that one that
exactly what that sounds like too pretty
confident
so we have another Super Chat here from
Vincent Cleaver thank you JavaScript
measures time from 1970 in milliseconds
I expect that we would probably just use
kiloseconds Mega seconds and Giga
seconds Atomic Bear Hugs well and you
know I've played with that one too and
it's why I say when you got to uh
there's an episode we haven't done yet
but one day we'll do probably an April
Fool's joke called why the metric system
sucks
and one of the performance that would be
in that episode is that a lot of things
that people point to the metric system
for and say they like on the metric
system they're base 10 which is decimal
whereas the English SAE system is often
uses base 12. and you know this is not a
natural counting system any more than
this is we count Knuckles you cut 12 you
do it that way that's why this will be
fives and 60s systems
um but uh one thing is the metric system
isn't really that ideal for is that
doesn't really do temperatures
comfortably as a lot of us would like to
have it and it doesn't really scale so
well in things like time because if you
want to do base 10 for every thing right
you can do that for distance but then we
still use light years we don't really
use I don't want to be at yata meters
um people use light year and they should
or an au and you should you should use a
system of measurement that's relevant to
the system you're in I don't want to
talk to people about what Nano Terra
nail Jewels might be uh any of the
energy value of a electron doesn't work
well for that and it doesn't work out
for time uh you can do it it's perfectly
fine you can do a giga second you can do
a giga yield for instance too but what
is a kilosecond about 20 minutes right
or 18 minutes what is a mega second
it's like 10 days it's it's closer to a
week right over a week though it's not a
very useful number it's not like it is
10 days you know it's just in that zone
what's a giga second about 30 years
so you could talk about in terms of
generations a giga second a Generations
like a giga seconds you can use these
scales but do you really want to afford
things in that kind of context because
it's not really intuitive and so I would
say that using metric time and that kind
of context from the kilosecond or
something downward that's not really
gonna produce a system that people
really want to use now it doesn't matter
to a computer no so if you've got a
computer just keep track of it but then
why not just use a binding light
measurement time instead of a decimal
based one right so again some things
don't scale well uh if I try and just
put prefixes on them and I think that
it's easier for sometimes just to have a
different year that people know that's
more native to whatever discussion is
like a light year or an astronaut
located that is to pack out another
prefix because it's not like when I tell
people good God a uh a pedometer or a uh
you know penetrol that they just know
what what kind of scale I'm talking
about the top of my head you know these
are not terms that really go very well
all right I'd like to give a shout out
here to not five for their 100 Crown
Super Chat thank you for supporting the
live stream and the program and we have
another question here from Michael
Beacon with a super chat what do you
think of moving an O'Neill cylinder at
faster than light speeds do you think
coming out of faster than light would
have a dark helmet from Spaceballs
effect
oh
I haven't seen Spaceballs since the
second Millennium so I'm trying to
remember the character a little bit
better there he's the Darth Vader ripoff
um but uh I'm trying to move that
actor's name Rick Rick something that
played him uh great movie haven't seen
in yours though so I'm not positively
remembering that effect is
um other than they store planets
atmosphere with a vacuum cleaner which
was good but so okay
um I do not tend to I mean if you're
familiar with the show there's not
really going to be a scenario where I
think the wood own your stone door
traffic at faster light speed is a
realistic statement
look up O'Neill cylinders and faster
than light travel for more information
I'll be curious and something about chat
cheese BT what what share GPT would have
to say on that man let's try to see all
those things that might drive a little
bit off the edge so Simone Zara would a
project to build a live stream Loop
connecting South America and Africa to
bootstrap the building of an orbital
ring to hang static stations from be
doable before the turn of the century
I mean technically speaking it's good to
do right now it's just
um you know the idea there would be you
don't have to put a lost room with the
equator but like every other launch
assist vehicle it looks a little bit
easier that way
um
I think you'd have a lot easier times
you're going to do a tethered ring
inside either the Atlantic Ocean or the
Pacific Ocean because then it's actually
going to run by all these really
valuable ports whereas there's not that
much built up on the equator especially
in terms of countries that have the kind
of uh Finance economic clout to build
something like that when you get around
to it though all you need is two good
size nuclear reactors one on each side
and
and uh ideally a very nice room
temperature superconductor would help a
lot too but uh sadly that is okay that
one's on the horizon immediately at the
money though which I'm still
disappointed about but was not surprised
by
um
but uh although I would say the the
biggest upside personally from the LK 99
incident was that our old episode the
impact of superconductors got a whole
bunch of new views on it so that was
that was a positive anyway but uh yeah
you could put a lobster Loop that way I
am a big believer that a lot of these
space launch techniques like you know
operating like a tethered ring or a a
livestream Loop that's between two
places like that is that it has
terrestrial uses that you can't just use
to get in space you need to get around
this planet faster and cheaper so you
can take a train up to space and take it
back down to some of the place and
arrive anywhere on the planet in a
couple hours that's cool
you know and cheaper than running on an
airplane
you just got to put the infrastructure
in force which of course we always had
with the actual costs there because we
don't know what it'd be but probably
high
Jonathan rabinick says who is your
favorite scientist and greetings from
Poland
I guess the question would have to be
whether or not they're human and and
also greens to Poland because I've been
to Poland a few times uh thank you all
yours let's think I mentioned earlier I
was stationed over there in Germany for
a while so it was one of those places I
enjoyed going to there's a crystal
Market in Prague I think that's just
beautiful but anyway the question which
I've completely forgotten what was the
question again
who is your favorite scientist
if they have to be alive uh that's a
little bit trickier
um I it doesn't it doesn't it it just
says favorite in general my two primary
role models from the sign cycle would be
Richard Feynman and Benjamin Franklin
and depending on which day of the week
you asked me that that might change uh
which those two all uh but those are the
two big ones because I really find about
three very interesting characters and
also kind of inspirational and they
um
they just
they just seem to get it they seem to
have
a willingness to do science the right
way and look at it
um but uh there's a lot of other ones
alive these days I'm just trying to
think of you because when I think of
scientists these days I'm thinking of
buddies or people I know and there's a
lot of them so uh and uh I suppose well
I'd say in terms of astronomers our
storm right now from the New Horizons
project we've been talking about doing
the try to say that spacecraft that
would be one of the folks that I would
say you know we don't always give as
much credit to the teams on telescopes
as we do the poster comes up a big
Theory like Stephen Hawking but
um him and Eric Smith I think from uh
James Webb uh you know the the work that
they and their teams do to just kind of
progress the leader on sort of
astronautical knowledge is huge and it
should you know it should be considered
the kind of same Zone that we think of
for folks like tiger Bri or Kepler
himself you know the original Kepler and
so uh you know in terms of the modern
times I'd say a lot of those folks would
be on my list of living scientists I
like a lot larger pen
speaking of collecting ongoing data in
your role as the National Space Society
president didn't you have a petition
that you were advocating for recently
yeah and uh we will mention again
because it's doing pretty good actually
um the petition for New Horizons
spacecraft right we're trying to rescue
that spacecraft which would brought that
to mind
um the National Space Society started up
a petition for that me and hoytal
Executive Vice President you know sign
on that to start things off and a lot of
other folks have jumped in on thankfully
too and I think we just passed 2500
Sanchos and I would know that a very
very large portion that was come out of
this channel so everyone would assign
that thank you if you haven't assuming
you're willing to please do uh what is
this petition about it is a petition to
encourage NASA to find some additional
funding to keep that spacecraft going
because we spent a billion dollars to
get out there it's doing amazing work
right now still and because shutting it
down prematurely you're putting into a
tender mode for a little while you know
to save um a couple million bucks just
seems like
yeah
this seems like a non-domptu non-optimal
use of funds keep the spacecraft going
keep letting us find out more about the
Kuiper belt
um see or comment my episode flick over
that because it's got the link in it
right there and I don't think I have it
paste on this one yet we'll also have it
in this week's upcoming episode again
too so so about change.org that petition
that's doing great and I hope you all
sign in Parker Brown thank you for your
Super Chat greetings Arthur family Isaac
what do you think about the idea of a
planet-sized organism along the lines of
a giant cell
uh plant-sized organism the size of a
giant single cell I think that would be
a hard one to like something
multicellular like a gigantic algae
Planet a little bit easier to see best
fictional portrayal of that I would say
would be Peter Hamilton's uh Morning
Light Mountain very very xenophobic
aliens hive mind uh from his um
Commonwealth Saga novels Pandora's star
and Judas Judaism chain very good books
those
um but uh I think it's a very plausible
scenario to be honest you see that in
Alpha Centauri the uh video game from
Sydney or event so the 20th century I I
like the idea of some kind of
intelligence be able to arise in a non
Predator plate cycle where whatever
reason the entire planet has to be
developed in intelligence it's kind of a
unified whole possibly as a parasitic
organism but differences that make at
that point and kind of that's always
struck me as a very plausible scenario
for something in between a boltzmann
brain and the process that we would
presumably have gone through
to try to fit three more questions into
the minute we have oh trying to fit the
answers into them uh Balaji thank you
for your Super Chat might it be possible
to resurrect the ancient dead by means
of something like reverse psycho history
if back tracing particles is too
difficult uh well I can tell you right
now back tracing protocols is absolutely
too difficult but uh trying to force
into the other people you could get the
cultural but probably pretty well I
think we could figure out enough to be
able to replicate a fake you know
medieval village 1050 A.D or something
like that even if we didn't know the
names of anyone who lived there uh I
think we could do a very realistic one
on that but it would be a fake one it's
not going to be the post who actually
lived there that's not going to let us
happen that's going to do individual
memories and you know as much as I love
cycle history as a concept I don't think
it's any more accurate trying to run it
backwards it is trying to run it
forwards and it just isn't it is is a
fictional concept we have an episode on
psycho history that explores that more
Vince the storm chaser says what are the
applications of quantum teleportation
other than just faster Transportation
um it doesn't really allow faster
Transportation
where's The Optimist today it's still
only at the speed of light
um
for quantum teleportation there's a lot
of potential tiny little industrial uses
you know play around things very
accurate at that scale uh but it really
has
weapons it's it's basically a great
weapon you could teleport a bomb into a
shielded monkey
yeah there you go so the last Super
Chase from Andrew Soto hello Isaac does
something be impossible under known
physics imply that it is technologically
feasible as in cases where physics
permits something but there is a
principled technological limitation when
I use Tom possible under known physics
so what I'm usually saying impossible
under known physics uh all I'm implying
though is that if you really really want
to you can make it work as a quick
example of how you would do that since I
could theoretically emulate a human Mind
by having each neuron run on a computer
um you could theoretically have an
entire city full of people who will see
their writing calculations and throwing
little balls into oops to say win some
thought as a chord and where each city
was a single door on and by that you
could have a hive mind composed of
people working at their desks uh
composed of a billion cities
I don't know how practical that would be
probably not very practical but it's
scientifically possible and I think that
a lot of times the human use that
statement then it's kind of where I'm
going with some of those on the other
hand at the same time I also see
something as possible on a known physics
when it's not that we think that would
be new and possible so much as
it's we know it's physically possible
but we don't really see a pathway to it
as opposed to be being impractical so
I guess that's what means about that we
have reasonably with scientifically
possible but we do not know its degree
of practicality or we do know it's to be
a practicality that's horrible
so does that have for questions for
today
it's going to wrap us up we're at five
o'clock I hope that their drinks and
snacks carried them through and until
next month have a great week we'll see
you on Thursday
thank you for joining us for another
monthly live stream if we missed any of
your questions feel free to put them in
the comments on the episode and we'll
see you on Thursday but if you don't
want to wait you can check out any of
this month's recent episodes or see our
bonus content over on nebula at
go.nebula.tv Isaac Arthur as always
thanks for watching and have a great
week
