this video is sponsored by
curiositystream get access to my
streaming video service nebula when you
sign up for curiosity stream using the
link in the description
in the future we may have materials able
to change their form at the snap of a
finger or wave of a hand and it is
possible even that finger and that hand
might be made of such materials
so today we we'll be looking at the
concept of smart matter and programmable
matter things able to assume many shapes
or perhaps even complex machines and
organic structures in moments
we will be looking at varying levels of
this technology and what roles and uses
it might have
and even if it might be the fate of a
future humanity
now it is common to think of smart
matter as more or less being nanobots
tiny machines that can do virtually any
job including self-replicating or
latching onto each other to form shapes
and so today we'll also be asking what
if anything differentiates smart matter
from nanobots
probably the way the concept of smart
matter got out into the public eye was
with the 1991 blockbuster terminator 2
judgment day where robert patrick plays
the t-1000 the time traveling and
shape-shifting evil robot made of liquid
metal this was a pretty vague thing in
terms of function as he could appear
like any human including clothes and
equipment but couldn't make complex
machinery which while handy for plot and
special effects doesn't make a lot of
sense a gun should be easier to form
than a passable semblance of human skin
for instance as should the alchemical
equipment for brewing up gunpowder and
we'll return to that later today
the franchise kept it vague but
revisited in the later film terminator
genesis where the notion of many tiny
machines had replaced liquid metal
itself and that's when we'll focus on a
lot for today but the liquid metal
notion definitely got this idea of smart
or programmable matter into public
awareness
at the same time this is where we
started seeing memory metal used in
commercial applications probably most
memorably with eyeglass frames
memory metal was the common term though
they are what is known as a shape memory
alloy the two most common types are
alloys of copper aluminum nickel and
titanium nickel and titanium was also
very much a high-tech super metal in the
1990s so both led themselves to
marketing a roughly 5050 mix of nickel
and titanium for instance creates an
alloy with a sheet memory effect or sme
and generally comes in two types
one-way and two-way memory
one memory is where the material often
caught on martin's sides had a cold
state and when you bend it or deform it
so long as you don't take it above a
critical point of stress or temperature
it will return to that chord state
taken above that it will often then call
to a new baseline shape that may be
deformed and which it will snap back to
now a new cold state this is your
default material for eyeglass frames for
instance allowing you to refit them by
running them under hot water and lightly
bending them whereas the two-way has a
cold shape and a heart shape and will
bounce between the two when heat is
applied arguably more like a switch
today's episode is not about shape
memory alloy beyond noting it as sort of
the basic programmable matter and the
case of the two-way alloy would
represent a switch based on temperature
liquid crystals often meet this criteria
aligning into a nice geometrical order
when a certain temperature or pressure
is reached or electric field is applied
and so on frequently resulting in
changes of other characteristics like
the materials optical properties and
this is how your lcd screen works or
liquid crystal displays
and these are all examples of
programmable matter which is loosely
defined as matter which has the ability
to change its physical characteristics
in a programmable fashion based on some
input or condition
appropriately the term was coined in
1991 the same year terminator 2 came out
and back when the tv screens films and
shows appeared on were as deep as they
were wide as lcds were new things
as a quick shout out to my alma mater
kent state our physics and chemistry
departments invented that technology and
while it wasn't my cup of tea i slanted
to nuclear and cosmology it was what the
largest number of my professionals
generally worked on i'm hesitant to say
liquid crystals are programmable matter
themselves but they would likely be a
component of many types same for
semiconductors our go-to material for
title switches in electronics which
change their property based on the
voltage applied to them being basically
on or off or conductor or insulator
depending on the voltage
a bit down the road over at carnegie
mellon they were also working on the
claytronics project which is one type of
programmable matter and introduced us to
the notion of claytronic atoms or cadms
tiny bits able to be assembled in
changing shapes with their neighbors to
form something i rather like the catim
term because the word atom is greek for
indivisible the notion of the smallest
object which could not be sliced further
into sub-components that is obviously
not true of the prematurely named atoms
which may be sliced into electrons
neutrons protons or even quarks and a
catom is divisible too but would
represent the smallest component of any
programmable matter
now a catim isn't a specific type of
atom or even necessarily an animal
molecule at all indeed it could be a
large object like a big helium balloon
which is the context where i first
encountered the term in the paper
ultralight modular robotic building
blocks for the rapid deployment of
planetary outposts and here a catim is
explicitly a modular robot and while
many are contemplated in that paper and
others many of which are from the early
1990s too the basic notion might be a
regular helium balloon but with tough
skin some connector points around its
surface a few solar panels and batteries
and some electric fan for moving plus
some radio and computer components
inside then they can all assemble
themselves in the various shapes and
indeed they could presumably even have
shaded chunks still getting power from
their neighbors up on the top layer
as a quick side note powering a catam is
one of the tricky parts especially for
small ones and not one to dip into today
see our portable power episode for a
list of possible options but i would bet
ultra tiny ones would either use very
small rggs or tiny microwave receivers
and only operate near a wireless power
transmitter
going back to our balloon catam now
you've got some big floating raft in the
sky you can put into any form you want
in a marine setting this might be
buoyant spheres in space it might be
solar sails and many other options too
we're just assuming the basic catam here
ceased to have movement and station
keeping rolls
that might be as an impenetrable shield
forming around a person to ward off
someone empty a machine gun at them or
it might be a big floating raft of solar
panels hovering the sky made of meter
wide helium balloons with solar panel
tops or just airfield balloons sitting
on water
for applications this might be the
replacement of an umbrella rash that
floated over your head to keep off the
rain or too much sun or light the ground
in front of you at night
or it might be the emergency system
hanging around a bridge or tall building
to catch people or cars who fell off
a lot of times the usage is another
concept we get from ancient greece the
phalanx which was very focused on the
standardization and coordination of
individual troops or groups of units
into larger ones and is where we see
techniques like the shield wall getting
explored
a lot of the strength of the phalanx
formation or its various cousins is
based on how well its members could
maintain the formation and how quickly
and accurately orders to shift shape or
roll could be relayed much like getting
power to cations relaying information
between them quickly and accurately is
another important problem to solve
it is here that we also need to know the
probably inevitable weakness of smart
matter 2 which is outright material
weakness
most materials are getting their
strength in the connection of every atom
and here you only have the connection
strength of the cations themselves which
would generally mean that while a big
lattice of hexagonal carbon atoms
graphene has a very high tensile
strength some parallel arrangement of
individual atoms connected with grapples
or magnets or what have you is probably
nowhere or near the binding strength
that graphene would have even if it were
made from it
i mentioned earlier that it seems weird
that the t-1000 from terminator couldn't
form guns and we see a similar
limitation with many shapeshifters and
sci-fi like odo from star trek deep
space nine and his species the
xenophobic founders of the dominion
they can make blades from their arms but
not cannons however one fair point is
that catoms are not a good way to be
making something like a gun or kiln
because they won't have the same
temperature and pressure tolerances some
slab of regular matter is going to have
you don't use a ton of robots to make a
gun barrel out of or metal refinery you
use them to build a gun or metal
refinery out of dumb matter and then go
build other stuff or operate those
we often envision tiny nanobots in
sci-fi going to something or someone and
disassembling it and rebuilding it to
something else like mining on asteroids
that a spaceship grew from it indeed you
might use a skin of nanobots on the
surface of one to extrude a spaceship
but in practice they'd probably be
forming only to create the machinery
that was focused on that job like a kiln
or a dump truck or a drop hammer they
wouldn't be sitting around in that war
themselves because it would probably
damage them while they also didn't feel
your job it's like asking a human to
form a bucket shade to put out fire they
can do it but in the long term they will
instead build a pump and hose
another limitation on smart matter is
more conceptual the picture is made of a
single uniform catom one standardized
tiny object of which you have tons all
working together but regular atoms don't
come in just one type nor does the catim
equivalent for humans and other life
forms the biological cell
those self-replicate near perfectly but
there's no uniformity of them in all but
the simplest of colony organisms because
specialization is so often helpful and
when even something the size of an
insect might have a billion cells in it
and trillions for large animals you
still can have the advantage of
standardization while having thousands
or millions of individual types each
numbering thousands or millions
themselves
of course uniformity does have its
advantages the largest organism on the
planet is a single fungi a honey
mushroom spread over an entire forest
area and it's probably thousands of
years old too indeed while trees often
get viewed as the biggest and longest
lived organism many colony organisms
like that tree-killing honey mushroom
live really long times
now i'd imagine any mycologist would
take exception to be calling fungi
uniform meaning all multicellular and
with specialized cell types regardless
colony organisms tend to be a good
reminder that you need a lot done
without diversity at the same time
humans and other large animals are a
good reminder that a single uniform cell
or cation is not likely to be an optimal
approach to smart matter except maybe
for speed as it would tend to seem
likely that a single simple and rapidly
self-replicating catem might be the
fastest way too for a lack of a better
ward infected and transmute a new place
this is the gray goo scenario where some
tiny self-replicators turn everything
around them into more of themselves the
grey goo but i suspect you would follow
that up almost immediately with a
complex ecosystem of many catem types
this is arguably what happened on earth
with the formation of forced biological
cell and its descendants slowly mutating
into a diverse system after green going
earth and indeed it's very debatable for
a single catim greygoo would be fastest
a bunch of tiny robots disassembling a
planet is a scary idea from science
fiction but not a terribly plausible one
they are utterly vulnerable to a
specialist attack a weapon or virus
tailored to them they presumably still
do better building large specialized
equipment for tasks like a big cauldron
for smelting material or centrifuges and
so on things which perform better at big
sizes based on iron-clad physical laws
a lot of the single cattle notion does
also originate from drexler's universal
assembler or molecular assembler a
device able to guide chemical reactions
by positioning reactive molecules with
atomic precision or to push individual
atoms into place in the more extreme
case and this assumes it could
self-replicate
eric drexel is usually considered the
father of nanotechnology and amusingly
he did his doctoral thesis at mit in
1991 the same year terminator 2 came out
i feel like there's some option for
convoluted time travel plots worthy of
that franchise there with all the 1991
nanotech papers and advancements but in
fact drexler's doctoral thesis came
after his best known work his 1986 book
engines of creation which is the source
of so many nanotech ideas including grey
goo
drexler's still around and active like
so many of the titans of computer
development and unlike a lot of folks in
my own field of physics even relatively
recent gents like freeman dyson or his
mentor richard feynman who are two of my
own role models and whom we talk about a
lot on this show both of whom have
passed away and amusingly drexler says
it was one of fireman's lectures there's
plenty of room at the bottom that
inspired his work
feyman's lecture on that topic back in
1959 the same year the mos transistor
was invented at bell labs hailed at our
interest in nanotechnology by discussing
a lot of the possible physical limits on
how small we could go with technology
let me also give a shout out to sci-fi
legend robert hylan for his short story
waldo in 1942 in which an inventor waldo
f jones patents a giant reduplicating
pantograph or basically a big mechanical
hand that mimicked his own movements and
as feynman points out in his lecture 17
years later that pantograph technique
can go in reverse too making our hand
gestures or manufacturing process be
duplicated at tinier scale through a
ridiculously simple bit of technology
this is essentially the telemanipulator
or robot manipulator we envision when
thinking of everything from robot
surgery done by surgeons a continent
away to space construction and robots
controlled down on the ground or even
the giant mecca battling each other on
so much anime waldo gets used a lot in
discussion of such devices too in honor
of that story and arthur but it is
pertinent today for two reasons first it
reminds us that size is not the critical
part of smart matter or similar robots
the cams they make up might be molecular
in size maybe even smaller using
something like mag matter or they might
be enormous things dwarfing humans scale
second they might range from incredibly
complex to something that really was
little more than a tiny motor battery
receiver and pantograph arm and for both
size and complexity we should assume the
reality these machines will run the
gamut big and small simple and complex
just like in biology or many other
complex systems
now when picturing smart matter it is
easy to imagine little gray metallic
drops or cubes or something but we can
also imagine long threads weaving
together and we of course see this in
biology with both certain types of cells
such as muscle fibers or nerves and down
below the cellular level with proteins
a cation formed as a thread able to
contract itself can not only form many
patterns with itself or others but has a
method of locomotion built in through
those contractions one that a large
weaver many of them can use for shifting
its topology too
we also see a lot of overlap
conceptually with 3d printers and the
mention of proteins raises an atypical
use of smart matter while it's normal
and sci-fi for shape shifters we made of
something like smart matter and to be
able to look like things made of flesh
and blood we don't tend to think of
flesh and blood smart mad or much we do
with 3d printers though as we often
think of using them to print replacement
organs or to synthesize food and it is
worth noting that a tiny robot need a
long line of protein is actually one of
the simpler projects such a device could
be employed for by duplicating efforts
by which proteins such as dna or rna are
knit together by already we often
imagine future humanity being saturated
with tiny robots who knit and stitch us
back together repairing organs and
tissues and nerves and so on and i
really do expect this to be a technology
that is pretty decently advanced during
the 21st century
carbs fats proteins are really amino
acids serving as life's basic building
blocks and fuel as something of an
analogy to catoms are likely to have
their own analogies for calums various
basic instructions materials and fuel
packets they can shift around and life
will likely be a very good basis for
comparison and development of these
technologies indeed amino acids as the
true building block of life might not
simply have some analogy in small manner
like various packets of metals alloys
and ceramics but may be used in it too
we picture machinery as inevitably metal
but it often is not and as i already
mentioned earlier there's no
expectations of great strength in smart
matter objects even in cases where
catems might be principally carbon
nanotubes so using nature's example we
might simply use amino acids to build
from
indeed there's no real might to it as
again the narrow tech landscape should
be a diverse one and thus some might be
very long tendrils of carbon nanotubes
and others might border on simply being
tailored biological cells organelles
enzymes or viruses or might be tiny
factories that made those
so could smart matter turn into a
cupcake for you to eat
a tricky point because on the one hand
it seems a silly application but in
day-to-day usage you could easily
imagine someone having smart matter with
them all the time that simply formed a
cup for them to drink from
how does that cup get filled with water
well we could imagine the middle of a
desert a person wearing a cloak of smart
matter which might be composed of a
thousand different types of catums of
different sizes and materials and that
cloak might turn itself into a big
condenser or aerial well possibly an
active one such as a dehumidifier in
conjunction with some solar panels for
power and then turning into a full glass
of water in a house it might be a little
walnut sized bead that detached from
that cloak shot meter-long carbon
nanotube tendrils off the ceiling like a
spider's thread and swung its way over
to the sink turned the water on filled
itself like a balloon then swung its way
back to your hand and then set wood into
a cup
indeed it's not hard to imagine
extruding tendons to grab tea bags or
coffee grounds or a wall outlet electric
plug to brew you a cup of tea or coffee
and this is the big thing about smart
matter of this type it's not that
specializes in doing some individual
tasks it's that it can repurpose itself
for being decent at a ton of tasks
so you don't need a robot drone bringing
you t from the microwave and another
robot for cleaning the dust off the
floor your cloaca smart panel just oozes
out to attend these tasks in whichever
method that current technology situation
and preference allows
so it might aim for near invisible quiet
operations so as not to distract or wake
you or it might say i can do this but
let's call the delivery bot instead
indeed i'm using this cloak analogy
because there is very much a protective
cloak or safety blanket aspect to such
technology that makes me confident that
everyone will be wearing it at some
point
it's the airbag that deploys around you
in a car collision the strength
magnifying sheath that makes you able to
lift a car or deflect a bullet much like
the alien symbiote we see in the marvel
comics for venom spiderman or telco
and the comic book superhero
implications are not high properly
imagine if your clothing really was some
mix of various smart catem types able to
rapidly assemble you could jump out of
an airplane and glide down to the ground
or parachute or hang glide around or
even lithobreak at rather high speed
with an airbag
there's no reason these little catams
might not include varieties that are
photovoltaic or able to engage in fairly
quick chemistry either so instead of
dumping you out of an airplane we could
probably shove you out of an airlock on
a spaceship and it might form a
spacesuit and power panel and solar sail
to get you to some rock that it could
leach air and raw materials out of
including either directly fabricating
food or going through multi-step
processes how big of a chemistry lab
does it need to grow sugars carbs
proteins and print them into food for
you
or to build a capsule in the freezer to
stick you on ice while it builds a
beacon and patiently waits for rescue or
builds a spaceship to take you home
it might already pervade your cells so
can just repair them and recycle them in
the absence of food and the cloaker
clothes might just be some exterior
element of what amounts to a second
skeleton or nervous system threaded
throughout your whole body or your whole
house or planet a smart house might
literally be one made from entirely
smart matter able to constantly
reconfigure though it might also include
large elements a skeleton centimeters
across or meters long to be its lego
blocks
again catoms need not be any specific
size or complexity and big and simple
can do things that small and intricate
cannot they could be tiny too aerosol
sized what's implied in the concept of
utility fog a spray of cattlems able to
assemble into things and usually imply
to be hard shelled and hollow
but maybe the most important thing smart
matter might assemble into is people
themselves because we are already
essentially a complex weave of catoms
various cells many not even of human dna
working to be our body
why bother with a cloak or pseudo smart
matter where you can simply be that
smart matter you might feel utterly
human to the touch warm soft smooth
little hairs and follicles and even
blood looking human on an x-ray but
really be made of some brew of cattlems
this would seem physically possible and
also offers a person who was nigh
immortal and my hunch is this is a much
more likely scenario for humanity
entering a trans human era than options
like mind uploading to digital wards or
cyborg bodies because it allows the same
gradualism that folks often seem to like
with mind uploading there are the
notions that we could copy all of your
neurons onto a machine for emulating a
digital copy but your mind is still
there so we just made a copy of you not
a cut and paste transfer
folks will often say the slow placement
of neurons as they failed with robot
equivalence would be a gradual approach
that would seem more comfortable for
maintaining identity compared to a rapid
transfer and copy of the brain to a
computer in mere seconds
i occasionally mention that it should be
just as easy for such technology to
rebuild your actual normal or neurons
too
replicating or repairing a damaged
neuron rather than replacing it with an
electronic mechanical or digital version
they should be able to maintain their
flesh and blood you indefinitely just
with lots of little robots in around you
and that's a very sturdy you too
probably with a copy or brain available
for activation or to repair grossly
damaged neurons if someone sledge
hammered your skull
and keep in mind you already have
trillions of inhuman nano machines
running through you we just call them
gut bacteria mitochondria or viruses
and it raises the philosophical point if
maybe we are wrong to be defining you
and yourselves by whether or not they
have your dna in them as though that was
the be-all and end-all of your identity
however that gradualism approach makes
me think this future is very likely but
for many would be a temporary place as
they slowly shifted more and more
themselves into being smart matter
rather than simply being surrounded and
impregnated by it in many ways as we've
seen today it is already something we
resemble a complex sea of a trillion
different cells of a million different
kinds and purposes
so for many it might feel the natural
path slowly becoming a cloud
consciousness able to take on any form
it wants be it human or spaceship or
human foci but also a giant spaceship
your own avatar both the king in the
castle and the castle itself as a war
or the bird city on the ramparts or all
of the above sequentially or
simultaneously
it's an interesting concept to imagine
that the future of smart matter might
not just be intertwined with humanity
but what many humans may in time become
so our topic was rather divided in two
directions today slightly more present
day chemistry and some far future
implications about how our future with
or even as smart manner might proceed
neither really fits in today's topic but
rather as an extension of it so it
seemed a good place to end for the day
however if you want to hear more on both
topics we will be having an extended
edition to talk about that future as a
cloud consciousness over our nebula to
discuss what that existence is like a
bit more and if you're interested in
learning some more chemistry curiosity
stream recently added a crash courses
section and one of those zone chemistry
and by the always informative hank green
many of you know from crash course and
scishow
curiosity stream is full of amazing and
entertaining educational content but i'm
always impressed by how many new and
great shows and documentaries they add
each month and of wonderful quality now
as mentioned we'll be having an extended
edition over our nebula to look a bit
deeper at life as smart matter if you
are interested in seeing that or any of
our other extended editions you can try
out nebula anytime
nebula is our streaming service created
to give youtube creators more
flexibility and not be at the web of
youtube's algorithms for our content or
any other platform it is the largest
creator-owned streaming service in
existence and all of sfia's content is
up there ad and sponsor free and
released a couple days early we also
release an extended edition or two every
month and have some exclusive content
like our co-existence with alien series
it's a great way to help support some of
your favorite channels while getting
ad-free content
now you can subscribe to nebula all by
itself but we've also partnered up with
curiositystream the home of thousands of
great educational videos like hank
green's crash courses to offer nebula
for free as a bonus if you sign up for
curiosity stream using the link in our
episode description that lets you see
the amazing content on curiosity stream
and nebula for less than 15 a year just
use the link in the episode's
description
so that's going to wrap us up for march
but april is right around the corner and
we'll start the month off with examining
the concept of self-growing space
habitats and bases
after that we have our sci-fi sunday
episode multispecies empires followed by
asking what would happen if earth lost
the sun and became a rogue planet now
one reason that might happen is we
decide to use earth as a big spaceship
and send out to travel to other worlds
and systems in the galaxy but a topic we
don't discuss as much is how we might
travel around new worlds once we get to
them and we'll look at that on april
21st
now if you want alerts when those and
other episodes come out make sure to
subscribe the channel and hit the
notifications bell and if you enjoyed
this episode please hit the like button
and share it with others and leave a
comment below you can also join the
conversation on any of our social media
forums find our audio only versions of
the show or donate to support future
episodes and all those options and more
are listed in links in the episode
description
until next time thanks for watching and
have a great week
you
