in the Grand Theater of the cosmos
amidst a myriad of distant Suns and
ancient galaxies the FY Paradox presents
a haunting silence where cacophony of
alien conversations should exist where
is everyone or are we
[Music]
alone welcome to science and futurism
with Isaac arthor for our long requested
updates the fory Paradox solution and
compendium episodes done back when the
show was brand new most of a decade ago
I am your host the aforementioned Isaac
Arthur writer and narrator for the show
and also president of the National Space
Society longtime Watchers of the show
can tell you there's few topics we spend
more time on than the for me Paradox and
as we go through our entries today I'll
often reference other episodes that have
explored a topic in Greater detail as
our goal today is to give a quick but
proper summary of all major Concepts
involved in the formy Paradox not just
Solutions but critical Concepts like
what a filter is or how faster than
light travel or entropy violating
machinery would alter the equation many
of these topics are welln others more
obscure or newer or old but newly named
and with deeper exploration and a paper
doing some mathematical modeling some
we've never looked at on the show before
others again have their own episodes as
we found out from other compendium
episodes YouTube has a limit of 100
entries so some have been merged
together when they are overlapping some
are being left out because I don't
consider them very insightful and we
looked at them before in the prior
compendium and so long as you don't mind
my speech impediment much stronger in
those older videos those old videos
contain information this one does not
today's episode is not simply an update
or expans expansion it's a shift of
focus to spend more time on some topics
we've skimmed over in those prior
editions and vice versa some get much
deeper Dives or even have their own
whole dedicated episodes there are some
solutions I don't think are too
insightful but are so welln or asked
after so regularly that we include them
in here anyway we have a lot of topics
to cover today and I anticipate this
being our longest episode ever much as
the original two versions long held that
title of us video themselves so a drink
and a snack is advised and if you enjoy
the content please hit the like And
subscribe buttons and check out the
episode description for links to our
online forums to find other folks to
chat with about these topics always way
to help support the show such as by
donating to patreon as we go through
these be aware that while we're Loosely
using an encyclopedia format we are not
one and not trying to be one I feel that
would be too constraining and boring but
we are using alphabetical entries and as
with the other recent compendiums my
wife will be reading out the title and
references book IND in each entry to
help break up the monotony of listening
to me talk for a few hours and the
encyclopedia format also means you don't
need to watch from start to finish
though you are certainly welcome to or
to return and watch what segments You
Wish For Those listening instead of
watching I've been running a list of all
those topics and their time indices on
the video while talking and and you can
also find that list in the episode
description
alphabetically again feel free to skip
around and come back another day to view
more but a couple topics are Paramount
and vital to understand the formy
Paradox so we'll cover those first and
we might as well begin with the formy
Paradox
itself now the first thing to understand
about the fory Paradox is that it arises
from the assumption that the universe is
huge and ancient compared to our planet
that it probably has tons of planets
like Earth only older and that since our
planet has life so would many of them
but the fory Paradox isn't just about if
there's life out there it's about there
being life we could currently see and
detect that's obviously a moving
goalpost since we keep getting better at
finding signals signs and portense of
life or intelligent life and for our
purposes today when we say intelligent
life what we mostly mean is
technological life those able to leave a
technal we could detect like a radio
signal ornament Dyson swarm not
intelligent dolphins or even Iron Age
alien
civilizations the fory Paradox is also
just a name given to in the 1970s by
Michael halt one of the more active
early discussers of the topic in serious
scientific context and it's probably
very badly named first nobody actually
thinks it's a real Paradox merely noting
that to many people it seems paradoxical
that enover so immense and ancient
should not be up to its eyebrows and in
ancient civilizations by now and that we
would expect to be able to detect them
Nami at for enrio for me a great
physicist who also helped invent the
hydrogen bomb is also a bit dubious FY
didn't think it was a paradox and only
has one brief known mention of the topic
where he simply opines that he doesn't
think civilizations tend to last long
before blowing themselves up and that
Interstellar colonization is probably
not practical and again he helped to
invent nuclear weapons and died before
we landed on the moon so it's not really
surprising that he have been a touch
pessimistic about our survival odds and
Galactic
expansion I would say this was
essentially the default opinion of the
science Community for some time too with
lots of notable exceptions though
shortly after the moon landings when we
were pretty optimistic about forther
space exploration and when NATO and the
Warsaw pth seemed to be increasingly
less likely to bury civilization in
atomic ashes we saw a lot of revisiting
of the problem and in the the context of
interstellar travel being possible and
that technology wasn't necessarily a
ticking Time Bomb this opened the doors
to speculation and H a biologist
conjecture that a key concept of biology
and darwinian evolution is that life is
going to try to expand and grow and find
new niches wherever it can filling up
every Rock in the Galaxy so they'd be
impossible for us to miss thus any
explanation would need to either show
how they couldn't do that or could but
would choose not to do that he also
begins discussion with what we call fact
a that we have no demonstrable proof of
alien existence at this time which
obviously is disputed by many there are
a large number of form Paradox solutions
that seek to show that alien
civilizations cannot or will not grow
and one large section of those is that
they can and would but that life or at
least intelligent technological life is
so rare or recent that the universe is
pretty empty but not for long this is
the default perspective of the show and
myself incident though as I like to
stress it's not that I believe in this
position or think the evidence is
strongest for it but rather that it is
also a weak position just the least bad
explanation I've been poking and pting
at them for years before the show and
since starting the show I've probably
been set more proposed Solutions and
Arguments for or against than nearly
anyone else alive and the show's online
forums hosted more serious debate on the
topic than any other place I can think
of my conclusion after many years is
that all the proposed Solutions have
their issues and we'll raise those as we
go and all low of them share an issue
like non-exclusivity the Dyson dilemma
or the time elapse argument none of
which are solutions themselves but still
get an entry of their own today the next
big Camp of the fory Paradox is
generally those who feel there's no
Paradox because aliens are here and
evidence of them is strong and we'll
look at some of those arguments today
but by and large our fory Paradox
episodes operate from the Assumption we
do not have strong evidence of aliens
currently again what some call fact a
and our alien civilization series
explores those options more in those we
examine if a given alien group was
acting a given way what that would tell
us and if it fits the evidence folks
often present I generally do not like to
do episodes discussing the veracity of
Any Given bit of evidence here on Earth
though I do not personally find any of
it compelling but I know lots of
intelligent and thoughtful people who do
many are good friends as well and it's a
good place to insert the reminder and
request that this show is all about
questions and discussion but also about
courtesy so please keep that in mind for
any comments left on the video replies
to others or dialogue in all forms by
default this show and its audience tilt
to the skeptical though ly universally
and my big reminder is that one of the
reasons I do is not because I think
aliens wouldn't visit Earth but rather
because I couldn't believe they would be
able to do so and not pop in and so we
will be covering many of the solutions
for why we might just not be seeing them
even though they are here and leaving
evidence our third maor Camp is those
who do not believe we're able to see the
evidence and this includes options like
we just don't recognize that a mountain
here on Earth is actually intelligent or
that the last alien visit was a million
years ago and buried or they invisible
alien visitors from parallel Dimensions
or that their signals are so encoded and
compressed or fundamentally alien that
it just looks like white noise or a
natural phenomena to us so Three core
camps we do not see aliens because they
are rare we do not see them because they
are hard to see or hear and we do not
see them because we are unwilling or
unable to then we have a number of
solutions that overlap categories or
don't fit into any and in the prior
videos we broke them down by camps but I
feel alphabetical order is better for
today and with that said let's get
started estivation
hypothesis estivation hypothesis is a
neuro Theory from
2017 and part of the Widder General
category that aliens are mostly dormant
or hiberdating but here for the purpose
of surviving to an Era where they can
better use their resources normally it
wouldn't seem to make sense for a
civilization to hibernate for eons While
others arrive to claimed territory but
the notion goes that computation may be
easier in an odor and cordor universe
under the landar computational limit
that at half the temperature it takes
half the energy to flip a bit or have a
thought if you're a post biological
entity you can use that same energy or
fuel to run vastly more computation or
tho lifespan similar to rim migration or
hormet shoplifter hypothesis it has the
issue of leaving a vast supply of
available Galactic resources untouched
whereas a Hine civilization planning for
a post Stellar civilization for greater
efficiency would be expected to rack the
Galaxy to put everything into storage
Depots of some sort and it would seem
hard to argue they would prefer to sleep
through this era when they could just
send robots out to do the harvesting it
does not work well under non-exclusivity
since there is no no compelling reason
why some civilizations or factions of
civilizations might decide not to
hibernate or might hibernate but do
resource Gathering first or
automatically we explore this idea of
more efficient energy use by post
Biologicals in our 2016 episode
civilizations at the end of time black
 farming though it is a different
concept there as a civilization is not
hibernating to the black era to do
its living just continuing life into
that era see also black hole whole
farming hermit shoplifter hypothesis
non-exclusivity resource hoarding Rim
migration aliens common but
unrecognizable well it is common to ask
if we can detect an alien signal or
would notice a UFO trying to be discreet
there is also the argument that we or
aliens or both might just have a
difficulty even recognizing that the
other existed and was intelligent a
sension glacier thinking at a glacial
Pace might not even realize that people
walking over it existed or vice versa
that the town they built in the shadow
of that Glacier was but a brief candle
next to it but our working theory on the
show is that intelligence recognizes
intelligence especially in quantity you
might mistake a flint Arrow Head for a
common natural stone or a flint axe head
or knife but not an entire Tool Shed
complete with lots of squares and
rectangles and wiring and metal walk
even if all those tools were made for
alien hands or tentacles
this notion that intelligence recognizes
intelligence may not be Universal let
alone applicable to life that might be
visiting from some alternate reality or
Dimension but it is critical to our
approach to investigating cosmological
phenomena that might be indicative of
aliens we might not be able to tell if
some star dimming was a sign of a dust
cloud or a Dyson swarm or Mega structure
being built but if it were artificial we
would expect other techno signatures
like a lot of radio traffic or peaks in
some other unlikely part of the EM
spectrum or similar disruption in
neighboring systems that appear to
originate first at some central location
a city like New York shows its
artificial nature in 10,000 unrelated
ways and by default we should expect an
alien civilization to do the same
nonetheless we always need to be mindful
that this is the ballpark notion that
something artificial will often be
accompanied by more artificial things
and have multiple ways it appears
artificial and some we would expect
might be absent they may not use radio
waves for communication so too one
single aspect of that artificiality
might be incredibly easy to spot like a
lighthouse Beacon Light being
recognizable far further away than the
mini tools or structures nearby see also
techno and bio
signatures aliens used to visit Earth a
common Trope in sci-fi as well as
appearing in some religions is that
aliens used to visit Earth more in the
past this is a subset of Ancient Aliens
and one that usually assumes that humans
were uplifted by those alien visitors
made either more intelligent or taught
various ethics or engineering this can
range from benevolent to them Vis us to
use us as slaves as we see in the
Stargate franchise this tends to suffer
from the problem of asking why the
evidence of their visit isn't more
obvious and the question of where they
went and the former is more specific to
this case as while we can point at Feats
of engineering like Stonehenge or the
pyramids we know how people of that era
could have built them it is a common
misconception that we do not when what
we actually do not know is the specifics
of how they were built which is not the
same thing as we know a variety of
methods they could have used that would
have worked and have a little evidence
for some over others putting someone
digging a ditch for instance does not
imply alien help just because we do not
know if they use a shovel hoe stick Flat
Rock as a scoop or they bare hands it
also doesn't explain why there isn't
more advanced Tech out there as why we
often have folks say the more advanced
technology is the less durable it is
that is not inherently true any given
device is exactly as durable as it is
your technological level is at best
Loosely correlated a modern slab of
reinforced concrete is pretty durable an
ancient Egyptian pot or chair is not
more durable than one built today and
with the intent of durability as a as
opposed to price or weight so there's no
reason the only Tech left over would be
stone slabs unless they used incredibly
fragile technology intentionally which
they might have if the intent was to
withdraw at some point and they
principally used nanotech for equipment
maintenance or they did an amazing job
cleaning up which again they might have
done if visiting to uplift A Primitive
species and leave them to carry on
afterwards but then you think they would
have cleaned up better and removed all
the proof folks tend to point to like
the Giant pyramid or henge either way
this is an example of one where we can't
really disprove it and to which we can't
show a plausible motive for their
behavior and reason for a lack of
evidence so it is an okay for me Paradox
solution from a technical standpoint see
also Ancient Aliens they hide from us
Zoo
hypothesis Ancient Aliens Ancient Aliens
is the broad category for the idea that
aliens used to be around but have since
disappeared
sometimes through cataclysm sometimes
through War sometimes to give us time to
mature free of further interference
sometimes by ascending to a higher plane
of reality this category isn't
problematic because Ancient Aliens used
to exist indeed it is their apparent
absence that is the for me Paradox but
rather that they seem to now be gone
this General category suffers from two
key problems first is the question of
where everyone went and second is why
everyone went there
as we discussed our recent episode firy
Paradox Fallen Empires it is Nyon
impossible to wipe out a space fairing
civilization root and stem and even
harder if you're not leaving a conqueror
behind who would fulfill that for
Paradox just as well they vanished and
so did they destroyer and whoever
destroy them Solutions range from them
visiting Earth in the past and leaving
to be wiped out in a war where one side
Unleashed bazoka war machines that
killed their enemy and then turned on
their creators too whereas we have
problems with others like Ascension
because it makes you wonder why everyone
ascended all at once and why their pets
or machines didn't take the chance to
replace them after a few million years
or that they did and we are an example
their conly here uplifted some primates
to near human level for any number of
reasons than they left or died this is
also the category for missing precursors
which tends to fall into the
subcategories of accidental precursors
benevolent precursors neglectful
precursors and and abusive precursors
depending on whether or not they were
intentionally leaving us behind and
liked us or viewed us as a cheap
amusement or irritation see also aliens
used to visit Earth Ascension Berserkers
and hibernating monsters Dark Forest
Theory they hide from
us anthropic principle the anthropic
principle is a foundational concept of
Science and one of the two principal
ways we look at the universe and
evidence when details are few and hard
to come by this approach assumes
anything we encounter might have its
odds of being encountered adjusted by us
the Observer while the mediocrity
principle discounts The Observer for
instance we would assume that if I
encounter someone with red hail they are
a fairly normal and mediocre example of
humanity and by this logic if we meet an
alien with a Blue Shield we might assume
they were normal too but it might be
instead that aliens with Blue Shields
carry them as a symbolic reminder of a
time on their Planet when Neighbors from
distant Islands visited from over those
blue seas and might be either friendly
or hostile so a person was chosen to go
speak to them and carried a shi for
safety so too if we met an alien who
spoke Flawless English we might assumed
they were mediocre and that most aliens
did but the anthropic principle would
instead suggest we meeting them first
because they speak English they leared
to talk to us they are not normal for
their species and we encounter them not
by improbable luck but because of who we
were it's poor the mediocrity principle
takes a different view but critically
both exist principally for contemplation
in ignorance where Gathering more data
is difficult and thus is most often
discussed with thought experiments like
fine tune universe doomsday argument and
the simulation argument or hypothesis
this is most on display with the
cosmological anthropic principle which
argues that even one intelligent
civilization in a universe might be
incredibly rare but only those universes
where intelligence has occurred could
even notice that it existed dead
universes go unwatched we have some
reason to believe that even minor
changes in various physical constants
would make life impossible leading some
to believe our universe itself might be
highly improbable its key role for the
Foy Paradox is to help us ask if we may
be assuming conditions on Earth or with
humans are more likely than they
actually are frequently in the context
of questioning of intelligence is a
common product of evolution see also
Drake's equation mediocrity principle
simulation
argument Ascension Ascension is the
category of solutions that involve
aliens achieving some higher state of
being or technological Transcendence
that basically removes them from
visibility or even the universe entirely
this could range from some psychic
supernatural phenomena to them
discovering how to make a pocket
Universe of unlimited energy and
resources migrate to though the most
common portrayal is they reach some sort
of angelic state of being made of pure
energy and moved Beyond any mortal Vice
or motivation this is entirely possible
of course Unfortunately they tend to be
common in sci-fi and often badly written
so that their motivations seem
nonsensical or hypocritical and as a
quick reminder you and I are already
creatures of pure energy mass and man
are one of the categories of energy Mass
heat motion radi ation chemical or
nuclear and dark energy being some of
the others with some overlapping see
Omega Point cosmology and aloof Aliens
episodes for further discussion of this
category see also Ancient Aliens
technological
singularity asteroid impacts asteroid
impacts can devastate a planet and wipe
out species as we believe has happened
to Earth before possibly many times the
asteroid that is thought to have killed
the dinosaurs was not particularly large
and there are thousands of bigger ones
in our solar system and likely there
were more in the past as some asteroids
have fallen into the Sun or planets to
strike them or become moons and other
large ones ramm each other and shattered
into smaller and less Dangerous Ones
indeed in the early solar system We
Believe Earth was rammed by a dwarf
planet causing all moon to form from the
debris cloud and that Venus and Uranus
likely had similar impacts we do not
know if Earth has been lucky or unlucky
in this regard compared to other systems
thus fall and thus cannot say it this a
lesser or major filter indeed it may be
beneficial in some cases shaking up the
existing stable ecosystem that can
result in hyp specialization or
stagnation we also do not truly know how
much of an effort such impacts have on
Evolution as we do not know the state of
the ecosystem a few decades before and
after the dinosaur asteroid to know how
many of the extinct species were already
on their way out and is likely to vary
by planet and strike intensity and equos
system see also filter zian vacuum
cleaner Rare Earth rare
Sun asymptotic burnout ASM totic burnout
is a new or fory Paradox solution that
tries to tackle the idea of exponential
growth and technological singularities
in math an ASM toote occurs when we have
a curve Rising ever more steeply as it
approaches a maximum such as energy
needed to push an object to light speed
such that needs to be infinite to
actually reach that point the notion
here is that civilizations will realize
the tonal growth is impossible and
believe it would result in an inevitable
collapse a malthusian catastrophe or
similar and thus attempts to research a
stable point or homeostasis such as a
set and non-growing population this
notion itself is not new and has been
one of the major objections raised to
the heart typo conjecture or the
existence of cev scale civilizations
however the paper that presents it and
names it does give it a more thorough
treatment particularly in the context of
the growth of a large city a line of
reasoning might say that the complexity
needed to manage a civilization or
protect it from destruction might rise
super linearly which means if you double
the population you more than double the
management or protection it needs thus
there is a maximum which further growth
simply becomes impossible to sustain and
you see that and take measures to Halt
it the issue here is
non-exclusivity and that doesn't give a
reason not to colonize the Galaxy and
that always needs to be a strong one if
we're assuming intercell colonization
can be made reasonably practical because
you now need a reason why you are
willing to prevent anyone leaving up to
shooting down any ship which tries to
leave to colonize a strange new world
and that you are willing to engage in
this self-imposed quarantine for
astronomically long periods of time it
is possible of course but it is hard to
argue how a colony being set up
thousands of light years away by some
breakaways is going to count as
unsustainable growth that causes
problems to your local system any more
than some folks leaving a major
Metropolis here on Earth for a ranch in
Montana would and it would be rather
hard to imagine any City having a shoot
on site policy for those trying to leave
let alone every city that exists now in
the past or in the future which is the
problem non-exclusivity tends to present
to any liin on growth of the voluntary
kind see also heart tipler conjecture
kardashev scale
non-exclusivity before we get back to
ways to listen for alien conversation
and explore the cosmos I want to suggest
a different way to listen to this show
as we explore the future and that's with
top quality audio like rayon's everyday
earbuds raycon made a name for
themselves by providing premium Tech
products at a great price not just audio
but other Home Technologies too like
their faucet filter or magic 180
charging cable with interchangeable
magnetic tips to be compatible with your
devices and they have tens of thousands
of five-star reviews including mine I've
been using raycon everyday earbuds for
years now and they provided excellent
audio quality even after a lot of abuse
I've accidentally put mine in the washer
twice now and they still work perfectly
rayon everyday earbuds provide excellent
battery life and noise isolating
features that have let me enjoy
audiobooks or podcasts even when mowing
the lawn and guess what the best time to
grab your raycons is now their early
Black Friday sale is here offering from
20% off site wide to up to 50% on select
items including 25% off Fitness earbuds
and 30% off Tech kits or the impact
earbuds and impact speaker get an early
start on holiday sales by shopping
rayon's early Black Friday sale today go
to by ron.com ISAC Arthur to get 20 to
50% off
sitewide Aurora effect the Aurora effect
Builds on pulation Theory to discuss how
few planets would be traditionally
colonizable how hard the journey there
would be to make and how hard it would
be to actually grow and populate and
terraform that planet this Builds on the
notion that intercellular colonization
is hard and tends to only be attempted
rarely and on optimal looking targets
and then that once they get there many
might want to turn around or abandon the
goal this has some plausibility too as
in the story that inspired the name the
colonists arrive and discover simple
alien life that infects and kills some
of their Landing party some turn back
some remain but the colony effort is is
impacted by this new problem and fewer
people and thus more likely to fail it
is easy to imagine a million and a half
little problems popping up to make a
colonial mission Hard or that were not
expected making success less likely than
thought with no help Within A Century Of
Travel also that Century of travel
strongly implies many of the original
colonists have died of old age and been
replaced by descendants some of whom may
resent the mission and ask to take the
ship home as soon as those who want to
disembark do and they can get refueled
in turn back indeed even a methusa ship
which assumes people are not subject to
death from old age still gives a century
of travel to change one's mind as well
as colonists born in rout and those who
make the trip Frozen might not need more
than a few weeks at the new system to
decide it was a mistake the flaw though
is the same as percolation Theory it
relies on the assumption that space
colonization will be rare and focus on
the type of star systems that offer
Earth analog conditions and sunlight
until we actually demonstrate that our
usual notion on the show of colonization
that involves fleets not ships and goes
to every single stall building space
habitats not just terraforming planets
we do not know this concern about
colonization fizzling out is wrong it is
the reason though why I tend to assume
Gard or fleets will have a ship
available to turn around and journey to
the system they deported from Gard or
fleets are designed for stopping at each
system to drop off colonist and pick up
raw materials for the remaining colonist
to turn into gear for the next stop
while breeding out more colonists on the
journey and assumes each stop some will
want to colonize the new system and
others stick to the life they know on
the fleet but some may want to turn
around likely using a locally fabricated
St laser pushing system to make the
journey quicker and which would also
allow colonies further back in the chain
to send reinforcements as we discussed
in Rebel colonies last week for more
details on the Aurora effect see our
episode fory Paradox and the Aurora
effect see also per ulation
Theory axial tilt axial tilt of a planet
is one of the Lesser or minor filters
that contributes The Wider Ray Earth
great filter Earth is tilted relative to
the Sun and our orbital plane meaning
the intensity of light on any spot on
the planet varies by time of year and
the degree of tilt governs how much that
variation is thus axial tilt is a strong
factor in how severe that planet seasons
are and it is very likely all moon has
impacted that tilt by being a
stabilizing Force keeping Earth's Tilt
to roughly 23° while some models show it
varying by up to 85° without our moon
polar circles are 23° and places where
the sun will not rise or will not set
for long stretches the longer the closer
to the pool you are so an 85° axial tilt
would mean a planet would have its
Arctic Circle stretching nearly down to
the Equator this does not mean it's
always cold rather it means the place
most folks live on earth now would
instead instead be having durations of
eternal Summer and Sun for many weeks
followed half a year later by a winter
of Eternal Darkness for several weeks
this does not necessarily prevent life
or even complexity but such severe
Seasons would be a complicating Factor
what's more axial tilt can vary with
time we believe Earth shifts by about 2°
from the milankovich cycles and other
variations Associated like axial
obliquity and procession and perations
from larger planets like Jupiter see
also filter great filter Jian vacuum
cleaner large Moon needed Rare Earth
rare
Sun ver cers and hibernating
monsters one popular explanation for the
Foy Paradox is that the Galaxy is
littered with sleeping machines or
monsters that pop out to eat
technological civilizations this draws
its name from the bazoka stories by Fred
saberhagen which feature machine
intelligences which wiped out their own
creators and are intent on getting or
other biological life too sometimes
these are rogue Von noyman probes or
terraforming machines gone astray
sometimes left over super weapons from a
war who killed the enemy then turned on
their creators most often fiction they
are a predator in the darkness with
indistinct motives as we see in love
crafty and Cosmic horror and indeed many
pre- science fiction Tales of dread the
Reapers from Mass Effect Borg from Star
Trek or Shadows from Babylon 5 would be
examples in popular fiction and flushing
out their backround and motivations only
tended to make them seem less
interesting as bad guys and I think
that's because their strategies flaws
start poking through it makes people
wonder why they are killing off
intelligent life how they missed Earth
why they wait till you've got spaceships
to attack and why they hibate and do
nothing in the meantime it then runs
into non exclusivity and the issue that
the Galaxy is not the same thing as the
universe so that a Galaxy spanning
sleeping Predator should have been
displaced by some expeditionary force
from some other Galaxy that did not
twiddle its thumbs for a milliony year
long halftime shows see your episode
sleeping Giants and Gods and Monsters
for further discussion see also
non-exclusivity our galaxy isn't the
whole universe technological
singularity black hole farming black
hole farming as discussed in the first
episode of our civilizations at the End
of Time series refers to civilizations
that use black holes as their main power
sour for either by methods like the
Penrose process for dumping Mass into
existing black holes and getting energy
from them or via hacking radiation these
methods are on an order of 100 times
more efficient with mass energy than
Fusion critically to the Foy Paradox it
implies a lot of civilizations switch to
use natural or artificial black holes as
their power supplies and also because
black hole lifetime is so insanely long
dumping matter into them and moving to
them basically serves as enormous B
batteries or Bank vaults for after all
the stars burn out there is no advanced
technology needed for feeding or moving
existing black holes or tapping the
power release during feeding or from the
later stage high-intensity Hawking
radiation so a civilization might create
a sequence of black holes each just a
bit more massive than the last each
having something like a trillion year
period where they were giving off nearly
a gwatt of power and just skip over to
the next one as each for lack of a
better Ward blooms this allows
biological civilizations to carry on for
quadrillions of years at least and
post-biological ones far longer and it
is the reason why we tend to assume that
civilizations have a motivation to
harvest an entire Galaxy's worth of mass
stars and nebuli alike since they can
run very nearly at tonal Empires this
way see also estivation hypothesis post
biological Rim
migration boltzman brain a boltzman
brain is a hypothetical mind which
assembles at random from particles
bumping into each other this is
incredibly unlikely in our universe
compared to Evolution but may be more
likely in realities with different
physics we discussed this morning
episode on bortman brains and the
anthropic principle what is more perent
to the Foy Paradox a bman brain that
assembled in some reality would be
surrounded by empty nothingness not a
planet relatives Predators prey or food
and statistically is unlikely to even
have sensory apparatus and thus might go
insane and hallucinate a reality
reminiscent of the simulation argument
but without a simulator this is more of
a concept that reality is just a dream
and thus nothing in it has to rigorously
make sense or be entirely consistent
like apparent paradoxes as a forly
paradox solution this works just fine
though strongly implies to you anyway
that I am a voice in your head and
nothing you see as real or indicative of
how the real Universe works and that you
are matter than a hatle
see also simulation
argument carbon and nitrogen ratios not
including Dark Matter most of this
universe is hydrogen helium and started
off that way while Stars fuse hydrogen
into helium most of the helium started
forming about 20 seconds after the big
bang when the universe better resered
the core of a giant star and after a few
minutes we were left with about seven
protons for every Neutron in existence
and most of those neutrons paired up
with another and two protons to form a
helium atom with some in dyum helium 3
or shortlived tridium and a tiny
fraction around a billionth as lithium
607 it was essentially a ratio based on
how many nucleons or protons and
neutrons were in an atom and that
nothing with five or eight nucleons is
stable that's the original Universe 12
atoms of hydrogen for every helium which
being more massive and with more
nucleons is where about a quarter of the
mass ended up as helium plus a trivial
billion than lithium no oxygen carbon or
nitrogen existed that took Stars forming
which took another quarter of a billion
years Stars fuse hydrogen into helium
but all Sun's helium content is almost
entirely from atoms that existed since
the Big Bang not Stellar fusion and
helium can also be fused into heavier
elements as bigger Stars age one of the
major Fusion chains is the CNO cycle
short for carbon nitrogen oxygen and
this results in oxygen carbon and
nitrogen being the third fourth and
seventh most abundant elements at
10,400
4,600 and 960 parts per million
respectively and making up most of the
remaining mass of the universe that is
not hydrogen helium neutrinos or darkg
matter nonetheless that's very scarce
and has been rising with time the rate
isn't quite linear to age but if you
went back to when the universe was half
as old you would find about half as much
of those elements and yet they are
critical to to life and critical to
having quantity oxygen is the most
plentiful and heaviest of those three
thus least likely to blow away under
solar wind from an inner region of a
solar system it also reacts strongly and
bonds to nearly everything unlike helium
which bonds to nothing and as a result
it is usually the first or second most
abundant element on any rocky planet or
moon or asteroid water and most rock is
mostly Oxygen by mass fraction carbon
does better than nitrogen There is five
times as much of it too but in the end
both are not terribly abundant in our in
our solar system and likely that is a
fairly Universal condition so that many
early worlds would not have enough to
have made life very probable But as time
goes on it becomes more common and so
too it becomes more probable that you
would have planets in the goldilock zone
of a system that were not just abundant
in water but also in carbin and able to
have nitrogen Rich atmospheres and
abundant enough in both to support
geological hydrological and biological
cycles that help make sure life on four
has a dense and accessible Supply and in
the right ratios see also critical
element scarcity Goldilocks zone
metallicity colonizing is too dangerous
colonizing is too dangerous is a
subcategory of late filters of the fory
Paradox that focus on reasons why you
might be able to colonize space but
choose not to this is an interesting
case as it has an example of conversion
Behavior to explain why our
civilizations might do it and thus it
wouldn't be a viol of
non-exclusivity the reasoning goes that
in the absence of faster light travel
you cannot really have a cohesive
Interstellar Empire of any real size and
thus you decide the best plan is to
limit yourselves to the K1 or K2 scale
which is still Beyond enormous compared
to any Empire we have ever seen and you
just don't let people fly off in Colony
ships shooting down fleeing ships is
insanely easy and foolproof they cannot
outrun your missiles which need no fuel
to slow down and they do if they want to
colonize anything rather than die in
space when they run out of resources we
have discussed that in our space Warfare
episode so you can plausibly maintain
this sort of self-imposed quarantine
indefinitely from a technical
perspective from a political or social
perspective it gets harder but your core
sellling point is that adding colonies
near you doesn't give you much more than
an enemy in embryo as they will get
Divergent and instead of having empty
space all around you you now have
potential enemies friends and allies may
be too but enemies ones with doomsday
weapons or who might get lazy and
unleash a vanyan swarm of Berserkers in
this regard while it has its weaknesses
especially as a long-term reason space
doesn't get colonized even over millions
of years I do consider this one of the
stronger formi Paradox Solutions see
also bers and hibernating monsters late
filters
non-exclusivity colonizing is too hard
when it comes to reasons aliens might be
visible to us the idea that they are
rare because of various filters is
common but some come after where we are
at now the late filters and perhaps the
most classic dating back to enrio fromy
himself is that colonizing space is
simply too difficult to ever be
practical we have many episodes devoted
to that the most recent being the last
planet and colonizing the Galaxy and I
feel the evidence favor of space
colonization being practical but until
the day that we not only have an
Interstellar Colony but several who
themselves have begun sending out Colony
fleets of their own we do not know if
this is a lesser filter or some great
filter that maybe many get to where we
are now and just never colonize much
beyond their solar system because little
is gained and much spent and this is a
critical concept to the Aurora effect
and population Theory which tend to
assume intercell colonization is at best
a marginal Affair obviously I disagree
rather loudly in about once a week for
nearly a decade now as more than half
our episodes speak to how space tra
travel can become practical not exactly
a shocking Viewpoint coming from the
president of the National Space Society
I suppose for further explanation of why
see episode 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 and really
nearly every episode up through today
see also colonizing is too dangerous
great filter late
filters compounding filters not all
filters are the for paradox are great
filters some like a planet being in the
gillock zone are decently likely While
others such as multicellular life or
photosynthesis evolving where life
already exists seem likely in most cases
however the cumulative and compounding
nature of these sorts of lesso filters
can stack up in our original fori
Paradox compendium we walk through an
example of compounding filters to show
even a number of Lop filters could make
a single example of Life anywhere in
this universe improbable in simple form
if we assume 10 lesser filters which
were each just a 50/50 coin for ODS of
passing just half pass for each the odds
of make it through each of those as 1/
half to the 10th power or just under one
a million in that episode we listed 50
such filters that were commonly proposed
most of which were viewed as worse than
50/50 odds and which if true would make
intelligent space fairing life less
likely than not to exist anywhere in the
observable universe
many proposed great filters can also be
decomposed into a collection of lesser
filters such as the rare sun or Rare
Earth great filter where the former
might include dozens of factors like
Star lifetime brightness whether it is
binary or not and more listed under that
entry see also Drake's equation filter
goldilock zone Great filter late filter
Rare Earth rare intelligence rare Sun
rare technology
Cosmic
collectors the cosmic collector
hypothesis drives from our alien
civilization Series where we tried to
deduce what might be indicated about our
visitors if sightings were accurate
while somewhat tongue and cheek the
hypothesis suggested that if a prime
directive of non-op ference exists and
is enforced in our area of the Galaxy it
likely is a quarantine that is only
enforced to the degree seen as
reasonable and necessary like
enforcement of most regulations with
limited resources such being the case it
would be believable that visits to Earth
might be by elements who have Ram
shackle spacecraft prone to crashing or
having their stealth systems fail cannot
rely on support from local forces which
might shoot them down or arrest them if
they saw them and which might have a lot
of maintenance issues with ships and
cloaking devices our notion here goes to
our usual rule about Alien Invaders that
Earth doesn't really have much aliens
would want in terms of raw materials and
that only biological and cultural data
unique to Earth has value but you do not
need to abduct humans for DNA you can
abduct a mailbox or vend machine and
lift the DNA of many people off the
letters or coins many other Earth unique
things could have been collected before
humans got technology as we always
assume aliens knew about Earth being
inhabited nearly as long as they
themselves have been around or could be
collected more easily once Earth joins
the galactic Community after all prime
directive protection passes or just
sneak in and download Wikipedia or rent
a house in an area with good broadband
and wear a Comm laser to a satellite in
space would go unnoticed among all the
other traffic so we posit that the only
underground physical trade Earth and
other primitive planets truly has is the
sort of collectible items that people
might really want Originals of and that
the Galaxy probably has a large black
market for preon alien literature and
art in other words the aliens show up to
snatch up copies of first edition comic
books and novels as we also proposed in
that episode conflicting government
conspiracy theories might result from
many unrelated and tricks some alien
Smugglers having allies on the planet
they duped into helping them such as
Smuggler a telling someone in the
defense department they represented
alien Freedom Fighters and were offering
secret help but needed you to ignore
their radar signal and keep them quiet
from your own government which was
infiltrated by the local evil Galactic
Empire Smuggler B lies to the security
guard of the Smithsonian that they need
covert access to Treasures for Earth
safety while smugg might have told the
FBI that they need to help him Salvage
and keep secret his crash ship and dead
co-pilot and without tipping out the
space Mafia who had infiltrated orth and
so on the alien quarantine Force near
orth knows this stuff happens but maybe
takes some bribes if it's kept minimal
or they just don't have the resources to
stop such minor infractions when they
know orth is going to be brought into
the galactic Community soon anyway and
see sci-fi and know we already talk
about aliens all the time so why bother
with strict enforcement see also Ancient
Aliens grabby aliens prime directive
quarantine
hypothesis critical element scarcity
life on earth is principally made of six
elements hydrogen oxygen carbon nitrogen
calcium and phosphorus phosphorus is the
least of the six but still on that top
six and critical to Life as We Know It
with no clear substitute available
that's more abundant in our episode the
phosphorus problem we explored the
origin of phosphorus and its critical
role in life and why it's so rare as an
element there are other elements in us
that are less common and critically were
less common when the universe was
younger but there may be millions of
types of life that don't use water as a
prime solvent or aren't based on carbin
but some rare or element that are simply
too scarce to have had a chance to
produce life yet or need some other rare
El element in a tiny but vital role like
phosphorus life from universes with
slightly different physical constants or
where life formed later in the
universe's overall nucleo synthesis
processes might operate on very
different chemistries see also carbon
and nitrogen ratios Drake's equation
metallicity Rare Earth rare
Sun Dark Forest Theory Dark Forest
theory was popularized by the novel the
same name but covers a number of order
formy Paradox solutions that generally
fall under our bazo probe heading and is
a quiet aliens approach see our episode
do Force Theory and hostile Galaxy for
details but the loose idea is that the
Galaxy is a dark and dangerous Forest
full of predators and the last thing you
want to do is shout and draw attention
to yourself in such a case this is one
of our examples of popular theories for
the fory paradox that sound completely
reasonable on forc inspection but can be
set aside as essentially
nonviable the reason is pretty
straightforward it is not a good idea to
draw attention to yourself in such a
situation but is assuming forc that
nobody has seen you already and second
that if you hold still forever you won't
get eaten in practice you are often
better off lighting a fire and getting
some sticks sharpened and regardless you
are going to starve to death if you keep
standing there assuming nothing happens
to come close enough to see you and eat
you in the meantime this inactivity
policy is tantamount to suicide on
Galactic timelines as a result more
importantly not only should any
civilization figure that out pretty
quickly but they would also be aware
that their planet has been giving off
technos cures for centuries and bios
syur for billions of years and that any
civilization that could send an alada
their way could also also have sent
probes if they or telescopes weren't
good enough to spot them and that this
is something they would almost certainly
have done and while some civilizations
might hide indefinitely this way in a
silent Universe we would assume many
would not and thus some would be talking
out loud and once they did others would
shrug and say yes especially if they
were getting name specific messages like
sending a beam 2 Earth that had a post
built in every 24 hours and 365 days
which is isn't screaming into the
darkness so much as tapping on someone's
dining room window and waving at them at
the table so this is popular but just
has too many flaws to be a probable one
see also Berserkers and hibernating
monsters
non-exclusivity techno and bio
signatures they hide from
everyone detection windows are few and
short a critical factor of Drake's
equation and late filters is not just
that few civilization ations might arise
in a galaxy but that they might not last
too long thus their detection window is
dim and short we can hypothesize
civilizations expanding in the galaxy
and giving over large portions of one
star's energy to a huge Beacon that can
be heard even across the galactic
supercluster as they presumably have
millions of stars and at least many
thousands of years to build such a thing
however an earthcare civilization or one
just a bit bigger and more advanced that
died in say
2397 would only have had 500 years in
which radio broadcasts were occurring
however if they only broadcast for 500
years themselves and even if their Peak
could only have heard themselves or a
duplicate about a thousand light years
away then the Galaxy could have had
literally a million of these
civilizations arising over the last
couple billion years with only one or
two typically existing at the same time
and Scattered over the whole galaxy not
the tiny region of a thousand Lighty
years radius in which not even 1% of the
Galaxy Stars existed in see our episode
for me Paradox Whispers in the night for
a deeper dive on these odds and
implications see also Drake's equation
late filters
setti Drake's equation a core concept to
the fory Paradox is Frank Drake's
equation contemplating how many alien
civilizations might be there in the
galaxy for us to listen to based on a
probabilistic argument we detailed it
and its flaws in our episode on Drake's
equation but in short form it contains
several variables whose values can be
guessed at for an approximation of how
many extant technological civilizations
are around and transmitting signals said
he might hear those areas follow the
rate at which stars form in our galaxy
the fraction of stars that have planets
the average number of those planets with
potential habitability the fraction of
habitable planets on which life actually
develops at some point
the fraction of planets which develop
life which is also intelligent the
fraction of intelligent life which
develop technology which is detectable
To Us by its signature and lastly the
length of time which that technology is
releasing said detectable signatures you
can insert many different values for
those and we have a growing idea how
many stars have planets as probably most
of them but it highlights a common
problem the equation tends to produce in
my experience folks see the factors we
know and see that they are probably 1 in
10 or maybe even better but not less
than 1% and assume that the unknown
variables are probably likewise and thus
thousands if not millions of
civilizations might be around in our
galaxy the problem there is that we
don't have any idea of that value for
some of those variables and if just one
of those filters was a big one Lottery
odds then life is ultra rare and the
great filters approached the fory
Paradox of Concepts like Rare Earth are
that a more complete Dres equation with
all the relevant filters as variables
many dozens looks like something where
intelligent life isn't very likely at
all see also compounding filters filters
great filters Rare Earth rare sun
set Dyson dilemma the Dyson dilemma is
an extension of the heart typo
conjecture that reasons that is possible
to colonize inter a stellar space that
it is desirable and that the deao state
of any civilization around a star is to
work to either Encompass it completely
for power collection or to disassemble
it for its resources that in any given
scenario a star left sitting they are
burning and unused should be maddening
to any civilization subject to entropy
and thus the big question we should ask
ourselves when looking up the night sky
isn't where all the aliens are among all
those stars but why there are any stars
up there are still visible for us to see
you can see that episode or its revised
version 2.0 for a deeper dive and for
discussion of possible exceptions like
if they have perpetual motion machines
multiv Force travel or instantaneous FTL
communication as well as reasons you
might not build Dyson or why they might
look different than expected as we
covered more recently in our episode
searching for Dyson spheres critically
such expanding waves of K2 civilizations
turning into cev 3 civilizations should
be visible not just throughout our
galaxy but as far away as we can see so
that any civilization in a couple
billion light years that's older than
the light traveling to us from there
should be blatantly visible we see none
and that's the Dilemma of seeing no
clusters of Dyson swarms or like objects
in regard to the firy Paradox or the
Dyson dilemma as a bit of Channel trivia
to further crowd out this already super
long episode the Dyson dilemma is the
name of the second episode of this show
and one I've always regretted because it
is named in regard to Dyson spheres but
not only is the name better known for a
vacuum cleaner brand but Freeman Dyson
himself who the Spheres are named after
is best known for his work on the game
theory problem known as the prisoners
dilemma which really messes up search
results for the concept I did the
episode after some thoughts and
discussion on New Year's Eve of 20145 at
my friend Jason Ker's house over a board
game called acquire whose play style
inspired the discussion with a few other
friends including my future wife Sarah
and it was the first time she and I ever
had a long conversation in fact we had
another one some months later on Quantum
resurrection that I think moved us from
casual friends just above acquaintances
to good friends Sarah and I started
dating four years later right after
Jason's own wedding which we were both
in and the board game Acquire was the
one we played my bachelor's party right
after after the outbreak of Co our
original fory Paradox compendium was
done in response to the original episode
as folks asked if I could explain why
each of the various well-known fory
Paradox Solutions did not function well
under the Dyson dilemma and in point of
fact with the hope someone would poke
big holes in it as I always like the
idea of a more classic Space Opera
Universe full of aliens anyway and 9
years later here we are also I have yet
to hear a butle to it that anybody else
seem to find vincing besides the
presenter of said rebuttal I'll rebut
rebuttal when I hear them if I can but I
don't tend to trust my neutrality and
tend to encourage others to take that
same approach judge a given solution you
like by how convincing other people find
it not just yourself it is one of
several Solutions I either developed or
formalized usually attached with why
they were wrong but the only one I
really claim personally since it's got
such a big connection to the show's
development and my own personal life see
also FTL faster than light travel heart
tipler conjecture perpetual motion
machines Multiverse and alternate
reality
aliens Earth and humans are boring one
common reason given for why aliens might
exist and have fantastic Technologies
like FTL but never come by Earth is that
they regard our pale blue dot as a
mundane and boring planet populated by
equally boring and primitive Savages
orth is insignificant and best described
as mostly homeless it makes for some
good science fiction and it never hurts
for us to have some humility and
consider that in the grand Galactic
Space Opera we are bit players not where
the heroes come from not pivotal in any
way whose Planet might be mentioned if
known at all only in the way people tend
to mention Kansas that boring place they
flew over except millions of people
visit Kansas every year and in a big
Galaxy there might be lots of more
interesting places to travel to but that
just scals up from our own Planet it's
got tons of tourist spots everyone knows
and millions more most of us have never
heard of but still get visited a lot so
the idea that Earth is impossibly boring
to visit just doesn't seem
plausible the second half of that is
that humans are boring or
inconsequential
and the same reasoning applies that we
also have the possibility that most
aliens are hyper intelligent post
Biologicals or super evolved organisms
who view us as little more than pets or
even ants this doesn't hold too well
under non-exclusivity either as we have
people who visit Kansas and people who
study insects who would love to talk to
them intelligence does not that I've
noticed tend to encourage people to less
curiosity and most of us talk to All
Pets or even even all house plants and
there's no special reason to assume no
aliens do the same so while it's a
tastefully humble stance it isn't a very
good for me Paradox solution see also
post
biological filters filters of the firy
Paradox our various H's life is thought
to need to pass to get to technology or
conditions for a planet or star system
to be habitable they principally are for
discussion of the rare orth hypothesis
and its cousins like rare sun or solar
system rare intelligence or technology
or late filters ones which we have not
already passed through but might get us
like artificial intelligence it is
assumed Earth and Humanity has already
successfully passed through the other
filters on this show we classify filters
into lesser filters minor filters major
filters and great filters a lesser
filter is a condition we think most
times gets passed through successfully
for for instance most stars are as long
lived or longer than our sun so a star
dying before life had four or 5 billion
years to evolve would be a lesser filter
as most pass minor filters are those
most fail but many do pass and we tend
to treat this as less than 50% but more
than 1% a planet being in a habitable
zone and massive enough to have water
would fall into this category major
filters are those were success is rare
but hardly unheard of less than 1% and
maybe only a few in a million succeed
and this would include a rock in space
being big enough to even have an
atmosphere as there are millions of
minor planets in our own solar system in
a system of millions of such rocks many
will be big enough and a galaxy of
trillions of Big Planets any lone major
filter still means millions of successes
for this reason we either discuss great
filters those things so incredibly
unlikely that they are like winning the
lottery or less probable than even that
or compounding filters the effect of
many weaker filters but stacked in a row
see also compounding filters great
filter late filter Rare Earth rare
intelligence rare Sun rare
technology FTL faster than light travel
we believe that traveling faster than
light is impossible underknown physics
but it is a staple of Science Fiction
and of course we never know what
impossible things might turn out
possible where science is concerned
however FTL has a couple of problems
with the fory Paradox first it tends to
imply time travel is possible to
paradoxes and all and second it is an
example of a technology that only
exacerbates the formy Paradox if
available not only do me fory Paradox
Solutions rely on space travel at
sublight being very very hard or in
Practical as their reasoning aliens
don't colonize other stars but it
expands the regions we need to consider
our big issue is trying to figure out
why nobody in this galaxy Rose before us
and colonized Earth as it only requires
a few million years of ah Head Start to
colonize a whole galaxy ahead of anyone
else who might evolve there throw in FTL
and you need to expand that explanation
from a Galaxy or maybe in a super
cluster up to the entire observable
universe and even be beyond that and now
whatever handwave a given theory has for
why most civilizations don't do some
policy that would make them visible to
us not only needs to cover a thousand
hypothetical civilizations here but the
thousand in each of the trillion other
galaxies in our Harbor valume and the
Regions near it or even more 1 in a th
becomes one in a quadrillion a big shift
in odds so regardless of whether or not
it is possible it is almost never a good
EXP explanation for the great silence
see our FTL series for more explanations
of how FTL might work or why it should
not see also great silence perpetual
motion machines Multiverse and alternate
reality aliens solution exacerbates the
firmy Paradox time
travel galaxy type and stability one of
the categories of filters that doesn't
fit well into the rare sun or Rare Earth
category is the idea that some galaxies
may not only have regions that are rough
on life but may be entirely hostile or
have sterilizing events like quar
eruptions or black hole ringd Downs that
just kill off any non-technological
species that can't predict and fortify
against the event this is not likely to
be a strong filter in terms of existing
galaxies many might be hostile in whole
or part but probably not an overwhelming
majority however it is very likely to to
apply to older galaxies in general which
were more active in terms of quazar and
quazar like events and thus maybe the
reason we don't see ancient empires they
just were far fewer and rarer until
relatively recently the rate in time for
when galaxies become plausibly habitable
is fairly critical to Concepts like
grabby aliens or the Dyson dilemma since
they contemplate CF 3 and four scale
civilizations as the eventual fate of
any civilization which managed to get
into space while their region is still
empty of other intelligences see also
Dyson dilemma grabby aliens Rare Earth
rare Sun recent Galactic catastrophe or
War Stellar neighborhood time elapse
argument goldilock Zone the goldilock
zone is another term for the habitable
zone of a system and generally means
where liquid water as possible on the
surface of a planet even if more widely
it's supposed to be those areas that are
not too hot or too cold for Life the
name deres from the story of Goldilocks
and the three bearers which if you're
not familiar with it charts the activity
of a nasty little girl who breaks into
the bear's home and eats their food and
sleeps in each Bear's bed before they
catch her and eat her instead and of
course the big problem here is that we
don't actually know what is too hot or
cold for life and Bs for instance are
generally going to thrive in a cordal
environment better than equatorial ords
another key thing to remember is that
the habitable zone size is based off the
Stars brightness and age so they migrate
with time and many plants that might
have become habitable and warm early on
might be scorching desert infernos not
even the sand warms of Dune would
tolerate before that Ward was old enough
for intelligence to have evolved
nevertheless for all the uncertainties
of what is habitable it guides our basic
hunt for techno and bio signatures
particularly the latter not because we
are sure other life can't exist but
because we know we do exist and hunt for
parallel cases as the lwh hanging fruit
of Si see also seti techno and bio
signatures grabby aliens as our
contemplations of possible space
colonization techniques and spaceship
drives expands we can often feel an
inevitability that most civilizations at
our Point successfully colonize space
and keep moving outward so they rapidly
become loud aliens and stay that way to
the end of the universe simply growing
bigger till they run into Cosmic voids
or other Mega civilizations as such it
works from the standpoint that whatever
Force born civilization in our region of
the universe successfully gets into
space is going to claim space expanding
out from them at some decent fraction of
light speed whether it's 1% or 99% and
that every such civilization is going to
reach that optimal ship Drive technology
and same maximum colonization speed
whatever it is in a relatively short
period of time compared to the galactic
or evolutionary scale and have an
expanding bubble that eventually runs
into other Bubbles and slightly more
frequently into smaller bubbles or ones
with relative Primitives on it which
they may or may not incorporate or wipe
out or slice a reservation out for we
assume no FTL here so this is not a
unified civilization just an eternal
wave of colonies growing and having
someone on them decide they want more
booom and leaving to settle an empty
system the grabby aliens torm comes from
a paper by Robin Hansen a few years back
who also coined the term great filter
and has been a longtime proponent of the
idea that alien intelligence is are
ultra rare is our strongest for parox
solution and again the idea wasn't new
but the term really grabbed me the
attention and I could wish it was a
different one because it kind of implies
greedy or locust-like behavior rather
than giant civilizations who just keep
spreading out to dead and lifeless
worlds as opportunity and desire permit
same as early human tribes probably did
what the paper did that was new was to
mathematically model this approach and
pick some speeds and expansion rates
calculate how often such civilizations
arise in order for us to be likely not
to have seen any such civilization yet
ourselves and not be a freak anomaly the
numbers are not exactly arbitrary but
how fast everyone is spreading out
really controls the range of results and
what we find is that for expansion rates
of about 80% at light speed the number
of such civilizations that exist or will
soon come to exist in the observable
universe is on an order of 1, to 10,000
which sounds like a lot but is Tiny
compared to the number of galaxies as
such your typical grabby alien
civilization would have an average of
several million galaxies to call their
own when they are Bubble maxed out and
for that reason we do give the status of
being Kev 4 as the jump is in the same
range as we get for K1 K2 and K3 being a
planet star and Galaxy respectively and
that number is a matter of probability
as is that we are part of that group a
future grabby alien but probably on the
later side with nearly every grabby
alien arising the next few billion years
at latest see your episode grabby aliens
for a deeper dive as well as some of the
issues or objections raised and again
this is the camp I personally tend to be
in though it is not without its flaws
and others have their own strengths too
if true it means that Humanity might be
a lator grabby alien civilization or one
of the force but the odds favor us
having not just this galaxy but
thousands of others to colonize before
running into anyone else it is also
likely that Hubble expansion would see a
lot of smaller chunks of space never
reached by any one of these bigger
bubbles so you might have millions of
late comers who are limited to a smaller
region a m Galaxy or two isolated by
Hubble expansion in many billions of
years which is hardly a tiny amount of
space see also Dyson dilemma heart
Tipper
conjecture great filter great filter is
a torm coined by Robin Hansen an
economist who's been one of the most
active and longtime proponents of the
general rare orth Sun intelligence and
Technology camps the FY Paradox that
generally arises from the heart Tipo
conjecture the notion here is that life
will surely arise and get Space fairing
and expansive if it is possible often
enough that even just one example in a
galaxy will see that whole galaxy
colonized inside a million or so years
and maybe Beyond as in the grabby alien
scenario which is the default
perspective of this show as a result
since this doesn't seem to be the case
there are probably tons of filters that
prevent most from reaching the point we
are at now or one single great filter
something so unlikely to be passed that
you have better off of winning the
lottery or being struck by lightning
many have been proposed but our ability
to determine the strength of their
filtering is limited at this time see
our great filter series for a discussion
of the candidates in more depth some
great filters would break down into a
number of compounding lesso filters of
various individual strength such as the
rare or hypothesis is usually assumed to
be that simply add up to a great filter
and of course the existence of one great
filter does not mean others don't exist
or that many unrelated lesso filters
might apply see also Dyson dilemma
filter grabby aliens Rare Earth
hypothesis rare intelligence rare Sun
rare
technology great silence the great
silence is the absorbed condition of the
universe by modern astronomy and SEI the
search for extraterrestrial intelligence
that we do not see anyone and the basis
for the formy Paradox the great silence
is also often used as another name for
the formy Paradox named for the
inability to detect any extraterrestrial
signals or presence of any loud aliens
see also loud aliens quiet aliens
set heart tiplar conjecture the heart
tipler conjecture is a modification to
the original heart conjecture by Frank
tippler in the 1980s to include options
for machine intelligence vanoyan probes
and other Pathways for expanding into
the Galaxy Beyond faster than light
travel or generational AR ships the
original Hulk conjecture by Michael halt
in the 1970s coupled to his coining the
term the fory Paradox is the first
officially proposed solution as a result
and reasons that since life is compelled
to expand and grow and the the life form
that does not will be replaced by some
successor or fraction of their
civilization that does favor growth that
an unpopulated Galaxy can only be
because Interstellar space travel is
nigh impossible or that technological
life emerging is ultra rare and we are
the first local example the inclusion of
machine mines by tipur makes the case
for practical expansion even more robust
as it is essentially solution number one
to the FY Paradox there are many
attempted caveats and rebuttal to it
perhaps the most common being that
civilizations erect themselves faster
than they can grow or some Cil or late
filter or they find some way to
circumvent the biological imperatives
for growth the ladder would seem doable
though then relies on the idea that
there is a strong logical reason to do
so one that might be so compelling as to
override non-exclusivity so that
everybody finds this reasoning
compelling or those who do not tend to
die or that very nearly everyone is
convinced most of those who are not die
and the relative few remaining just
aren't common enough to be seen yet the
Dyson dilemma presented in the second
episode of the show can't be viewed as
an extra Galactic addon to the H typal
conjecture see also Dyson dilemma
non-exclusivity resource
hoarding hermit shoplifter hypothesis
The Hermit shoplifter hypothesis has its
origin in all shows live stream Q&A from
this summer where the topic of
neurohacking came up the notion is
similar to fory Paradox Concepts
involving civilizations converting into
virtual reality environments fall into
psychic poisons or remigration but
borrows a bit for each to explain the
behavior the notion goes that
Civilization functions principally to
help personal survival and that as
technology improves things like AI VR 3D
printing mind uploading or nanobot
regeneration techniques digital data
storage and other Technologies not only
make survival less dependent on others
but begin making civilization itself
dangerous to be near any lone lunatic
begins having access to Doomsday weapons
well any person can live indefinitely
either post biologically or simply
regenerated by nanotech their greatest
threat is other people and so they flee
civilization in a personal spaceship
able to completely repair itself and
them with a dense library of knowledge
and entertainment and tended by robots
and AI they can easily remain on the
outskirts of an expanding civilization
should that occur able to pick up
resources from any system they pass but
may ultimately decide the safest place
to be is in the ultra empty space such
as that between galaxies where Hubble
expansion will eventually isolate them
from any possible threat they themselves
probably live in various virtual Utopias
so the outside scenery is not of concern
to them except for resupply or threats
this becomes a firy paradox solution if
various technological Time Bomb
scenarios tend to wreck civilizations
and because in the early space fairing
civilization era resources are so
plentiful and automation so great that
many billions of people could easily
stash a billion billion years worth of
fuel in some giant personal spaceship
without barely scratching a single star
systems resources and head out to the
galactic rim and Beyond they are more
intent on getting out of danger than
maximizing their resource hoard since
sticking around to gather another
billion years worth of personal fuel
carries some risk that fleen at that
moment does not and likely there is a
personal calculus as to how much
resources can be grabbed the Practical
halflife of any resource Supply no
matter how big and a host of other
considerations like being seen taking
off with so much resources that others
come after you for spite piracy or a
sense of ethical outrage at your act of
Grand Theft nebula the obvious flaw is
the assumption that either every single
person in a civilization does this and
and thus violates
non-exclusivity unless those who don't
flee are wiped out by some inevitable
civilization obliterating event see also
psychic poisons Rim migration
technological time bombs virtual reality
Utopia inevitable intelligence
implosions this somewhat broad category
covers solutions that imply intelligence
itself will inevitably find a way to
destroy itself and can range from
everything from the media hypothesis to
technological time bombs or us inventing
technologies that make us lazy or stupid
or prone to nihilism or onwe the key
difference between this and others is
that it covers any scenario where the
destruction becomes effectively
guaranteed once High Intelligence is
achieved though it can also be a blanket
crate filter option for any number of
self-crafted doomsdays from AI to
environmental damage or Doomsday devices
see also neurohacking for happiness
nihilism or onwe psychic poisons
technological time bombs virtual reality
Utopia interdiction hypothesis
introdiction is very like Zoo hypothesis
except different in motivation
civilizations don't expand faster and
slam into each other because species
agree to large buffer zones and they
don't talk to other low Tech races
because they've agreed not to on the
grounds they don't want their potential
rivals or enemies poisoning The
Primitives Minds about them and they
generally think conflict is best avoided
by avoidance occasional minimal
violations by Rogue actors may be the
source of apparent UFO sightings on
Earth the philosophy is to stay away
from Aliens you can never wipe them all
out and everyone will know if you try
and replying kind and you are always
surrounded on all sides by potential
enemies who have every motivation to
attack you back if you try it so it's
easier to expand to an aggreed size
leaveing buffers and get along with
minimal contact everyone agrees to keep
themselves pretty small so nobody has a
motive nor ability to go to war and
since their own descendants are likely
be pretty alien if divorced Far Enough
by space and time they may see no reason
to go butt heads with actual aliens just
to make room for distant mutant cousins
this one doesn't assume any particular
alien motivation besides caution which
does not violate exclusivity since we
can assume like curiosity that caution
is a trait probably shared by all
technological civilizations there is
also a good reason to enforce it and
it's easier to enforce it with all that
buffal space rather than direct borders
you still have the issue of newly
emerged space faros getting angry nobody
gave them technology and resenting that
they were left to face endless disasters
when a few easy bits of help would have
saved UNT Millions but the counter
argument seems a little bit less smug
maybe we didn't think you needed to be
left alone because we're too high-minded
to interfere with with Primitives even
to save them from asteroid or plagues
but rather we agreed to this treaty it's
been around for a very long time before
us and even if we didn't think it was a
good idea to keep it we don't want to
suffer the consequences of violating it
this rubs some folks the wrong way
because they figure we ought to be able
to talk to anyone be friends with
everyone but introdiction doesn't say
you can't chat a bit just that it's kept
distant and minimal and realistically
getting along and tolerating other
cultural is one of all cultural ideals
that isn't too grounded in reality we
share common culture and biology but
still have a lot of cultural traits and
traditions that infuriate or disgust
each other and that's not necessarily
wrong to quote the example from our
original discussion 8 years back I don't
want to go to war with a civilization
that thinks you should deal with
overpopulation by killing off anyone who
doesn't get on the yavu as a kid and a
lot of aliens that give both to L might
have developed that habit and kept to it
long before some form of birth control
was invented as such I don't really want
to be good friends with them either or
get to know them and it's much easier to
stay away from Conflict by just staying
far away I don't find this case too
compelling though ultimately because the
easiest way to enforce this policy would
be to loudly broadcast it to everyone as
soon as they could hear and comprehend
it and we should be able to hear it now
along with long messages of
self-justification from this or that
Empire proclaiming how awesome they are
given how closely this mimics the
behavior of Critter mocking territory
and trumpeting about themselves I find
this Behavior much more believable than
silence see also quarantine hypothesis
quarantine is self-imposed Zoo
hypothesis inter Universe migration a
common reason suggested to explain why
intelligence and Galactic Civilizations
might be common but missing is that they
develop the technology to travel to
Green all pastures and do so which is
plausible enough as a motive but beyond
us having no physical evidence of these
green or pastures we also would need to
ask why they didn't leave some sort of
presence behind would we really abandon
Earth for instance and would we still
not want resources near us and if the
answer was no the pastures are truly
that green and abundant why not use some
of that massive abundance to power a
beacon on Earth or nearby SC leaming
into the void hey here's the diagram for
how to build new and infinite universes
have fun enjoy share it forward and by
the way we are attached to our home
world and bigger than you so stay away
from it since it matters to us has no
value to you and we have quantities and
sorts of weapons you would expect from a
civilization with access to unto
billions of wards to draw on and maybe
not all would do that but that's where
non-exclusivity comes in if these places
are so much better to migrate to that at
least some will do beacons telling
others how and the only reason you
couldn't migrate there and keep your
home Ward or other Wards is if it was
one way which means nobody could send
back a message they arrive safely which
means many folks would probably decide
not to take that leap of faith and stay
in this universe anyway see also
Ascension Multiverse and Alternate
reality aliens perpetual motion machines
virtual reality
Utopia Jovian vacuum cleaner the Jovian
vacuum cleaner is a popular rare earth
or rare sun or solar system filter as it
notes that our planet Jupiter has the
effect of sweeping up large amounts of
clutter that might otherwise bombard
Earth with devastating asteroid strikes
this is often coupled to noting that
large gas giants in an inos system would
eliminate the ability for planets in the
habitable zone though leaves it open to
livable moons of that gas giant while
definitely not a great filter as many
systems are likely possess Jupiter
analoges in size and distance it is a
good filter overall Additionally the
great Tac hypothesis that Jupiter may
have formed roughly where the modern
asteroid belt is now migrated into
somewhere between Earth and Mar's orbit
then migrated back out to beyond the
modern belt is a reminder of how easily
a large planet or passing Rogue planet
or Star could perturb a solar system
wiping out early planets with
non-technological life moving them into
regions too hot or cold to survive or
ejecting those planets entirely from a
solar system see also filter great
filter Rare Earth rare
Sun kardashev scale the kardashev scale
is an astronomical approach to
civilizations seeking to discuss them in
terms of our ability to see them but
does tend to get used for discussing the
size or might of a civilization too in
the sense of a civilization with an
entire planet stall or Galaxy's energy
available to it a Kev 1 civilization or
K1 Civ is one that uses so much power
that it would significantly alter its
Planet Spectrum so as to be unmistakable
for it to be natural C Shi 2 does that
to an entire star such as a Dyson swarm
and CF 3 does this to an entire galaxy
this is the end of the original scale
cter Chev proposed but we consider a
supercluster scale or grabby alien
civilizations to be K4 and K5 to be one
that does this to an entire Hubble
valume or observable universe see C
scale episode for more discussion of how
insanely massive K2 and K3 civilizations
can be and examples of what they would
look like see also Dyson dilemma grabby
aliens loud aliens
large Moon needed our moon is enormous
the largest non planet of the EOS system
and more massive than Pluto and most
other dwarf planets it is the primary
source of Tides believed to be a major
factor in Earth's axial tilt and thus
seasons is likely connected in part to
Earth's tectonics and is also believed
to have caused Earth to slow in rotation
down from a period of roughly 10 hours
like the gas giants have as such it has
often been contemplated as a great
filter for the fory Paradox though
modeling earlyer this Century suggested
large moons around earthlike planets
might be as common as 5 to 10% of star
systems still making a noteworthy filter
but removing it from its leld status as
one of the more probable major or great
filters this was a model though and our
knowledge of exomoons is still virtually
zero and some newer walk has called into
question how probable it is for large
moons to be around planets in the
goldilock zone of most systems
particularly dimmer Stars where
habitable planets would be experiencing
far more gravity from their Sun at
habitable zone distances while it would
still seem unlikely that a large Moon
would be a full great filter it is
doubtless a filter and may turn out to
be a strong one as was previously
believed see also filter baldilocks zone
Great filter Rare Earth rare Sun
tectonic activity
needed late filters late filters are
those which are thought to weed out
potenti or allowed aliens after they
have reached our current state and
generally fall into two categories
either one civilizations in our state
tend to kill themselves off before
getting into space or two the ability
cariz space is deemed impractical
undesirable or flat out impossible as
with other filter groups it can be the
case that several are true and filter
civilizations to varying and compounding
degrees see also asymptotic burnout
Aurora effect Berserkers and hibernating
monsters compounding filters filters
great filter hermit shoplifter
hypothesis inevitable intelligence
implosions percolation Theory
technological singularity technological
time
bombs life or intelligence is not
natural this is the general category
that suggests all Notions of how
Evolution walks don't match up to
reality such as a biogenesis being much
more likely than not to never happen
anywhere in the universe or that
intelligence could only arise from a
supernatural origin or via US being in a
simulation or the Mad dreams of a
bortman brain generally this category
doesn't tend to be subject to falsify
ability scientifically and this is hard
to discuss in terms of likelihood and
flaws obviously if the force life were
made by an all powerful daty or some
programmer in a higher reality it is
going to be relevant to the formy
Paradox but on the surface we might not
be able to tell if they had taken the
approach of making the universe
calibrated to produce us naturally or
not and we wouldn't know if they did or
didn't want other intelligent
civilizations in that Universe
nonetheless while we can't discuss it in
depth in a scientific context it does
represent a logical set of solutions to
the formy Paradox as the Paradox is
mostly built around the assumption that
life can spontaneously arise anywhere or
the conditions are right and that
intelligence is a reasonable pathway for
evolution if that is not true there is
no Paradox there does raise other
problems too a popular one to be to
wonder why the universe is so large if
it is artificial and we are all that's
in it see also boltzman brain simulation
argument loud aliens loud aliens
represent the default problem of the
fory Paradox and the great silence as
they are what we expect to see if space
colonization is practical loud aliens
are distinguished by possessing all
three of these characteristics they
expand and into a Galaxy fast they last
a long time and they make Visible
Changes to those areas they reach they
may or may not expand beyond their own
Galaxy or skip primitive or undesirable
planets they may or may not be
biological anymore or be some AI
successor that wipe their precursors out
they may be unified in goal and
direction or entirely Divergent and
unconnected to branches of their
original civilization back on their home
world but the key characteristic that
distinguishes them from other types of
civilizations is that they essentially
leave a very detectable Presence by
being big visible and longlasting we
call that loud since the usual context
for discussions in the 1970s and ' 80s
when most of this was first getting
seriously discussed revolved around SE
listening for radio communications and
signals glaring the obvious aliens is
perhaps a more appropriate term and they
are the low hanging fruits of the fory
Paradox and their apparent absence is
one of the main reasons for the for me
Paradox by default that's what we think
we should expect to see in universe as
old and as large as this one ancient
Giant and very visible civilizations
because it's what we want to do go out
and explore and colonize new ws and put
up big beacons and billboards
advertising them for visits and
immigration and just keep on doing that
in an ever expanding wave until the
Stars themselves burn out it is the
opposite approach to Hidden
civilizations as to assume strength
correlates to sheer numbers and
resources or that hiding is Not
Practical see also Dyson dilemma grabby
aliens great silence quiet aliens setti
they hide from
everyone low energy ecosystems low
energy ecosystems are low energy flux
ecosystems would be those in which a
vast abundant supply of energy like
photosynthesis was not available in its
absence a given planet or Moon simply
doesn't have that much biomass available
to make its ecosystem a small asteroid
with life on it even with plentiful
sunlight is going to have a hard time
having an ecosystem big enough for the
source of Complex Evolution and divor
the Earth has too a subsurface ocean on
a large moon has the same problem and an
icy Ward far from the Sun might have
lots of slow moving life that lived many
centuries but might not have had many
overall generations to evolve yet we
have to be mindful of this when
contemplating potential life bearing WS
outside the goldilock zone of a system
because they might have life but
probably couldn't have had time and
scale enough to have permitted
intelligence to rise as it did on Earth
that said you might have some W where
your natural ambient temperature
superconductors formed in organically so
the big human scale brain was so Compact
and low energy that it fit on a
thumbnail and ran on less power than a
tiny LED light of the type we used to
indicate power is on for a device or its
status in which case intelligence might
come very quickly as it's very cheap and
compact see episode noncarbon based life
for further discussion but this concept
concept of low energy ecosystems is
generally viewed as a strong filter on
what sort of places life can arise on
and how long it would take so that the
frozen planet might have intelligent
life but not till the year 1 trillion ad
see also Goldilocks zone mediocrity
principle the mediocrity principle or
Capon principle is a foundational
concept of Science and one of the two
principal ways we look at the universe
and evidence when details are few and
hard to come by this approach isum
anything we encounter is most probably a
fairly normal and mediocre example of
whatever type of thing it was as we
gather more examples we can increase our
degree of certainty that something was
normal or realize that it was not and
our encounter with it was freak luck
this is our default approach to science
and in the context of the FY Paradox is
why we assume any Paradox is in play as
the capu principle specifically reasons
that Earth is not special not the center
of the universe and and likely a
mediocre example of planets all in all
this reasoning is also embedded into
Drake's equation which is essentially
trying to determine how improbable and
non-m mediocre Earth is and in the idea
of non-exclusivity which takes that as
the default view of Any Given condition
or alien Behavior its partner the
anthropic principle takes a different
view but critically both exist
principally for contemplation in
ignorance where Gathering more data is
difficult also anthropic principle
Drake's equation
non-exclusivity metallicity the
metallicity of a star is defined as the
percentage of its mass that is not
hydrogen and helium and thus the four
stars would have been about 1 part per
billion metallicity and that's just
lithium 6 and 7 these are the
hypothetical population three stars with
population 2 being middle-aged low medy
stars and population one being the newer
ones like our own Sun as stars aged and
died we saw rise in such elements
scattered throughout the universe as
time went on the amount of metals built
up overall and the plants of star has
will have formed from the same nebula it
did so a star with a higher metalis
should have more Rocky material thus
there are more metals and more plausible
Planets For Life as time goes on this is
not evenly spread through and even
relatively early on in the universe you
would have had planets form and hydrogen
helium Blown Away by solar wind so a
Saturn Mass planet that only had 1%
metalis can still leave an earth Mass
Rock behind if you strip that hydrogen
helium off so too several local supern
noi could have produced a high pocket of
metals fairly early on in the universe
and they do tend to happen in clusters
like that thus this is more of a
hypothetical timer affecting the
timeline and probability of a metal V
Ward forming in quantity in places where
life might plausibly develop and not be
wiped out quickly like near a galactic
core or in an ultra globular cluster see
also car carbon and nitrogen ratios
critical element scarcity galaxy type
and stability rare Sun Stellar
neighborhood
miniaturization a common suggestion
especially in post-biological
Civilization context is that Humanity
would never go to the stars because we
keep finding ways to get ever more
efficient or miniaturized with our
computers this has the issue of
non-exclusivity unless we're suing post
Biologicals wipe out everyone else but
is worth noting that smaller and faster
civilizations would likely find
Interstellar travel time lag even more
upsetting as they might be experiencing
a subjective time rate far faster than
we do making multicentury Journeys feel
like eons of course instant travel by
light transmission alleviates that
problem by letting you build a robot who
travels to a star and builds a receiver
we discussed this in more detail in our
episode The formy Paradox digital
Empires and minorization which examines
Concepts like cter 2 digital
civilizations and matrioska brains but
at its core while they may build an
expanding Central Hub even to the buch
planet scale which I'll just name a bch
brain at this point they have every
reason to engage in resource hoarding
and sending out automated missions to do
that so no matter how efficient they get
when a single automated probe can be
dispatched to replicate and bring back
more raw materials and fuel they still
have every reason to send it being
99.99% efficient just just means you can
do 100 times more with the same entropy
as someone who is 99% efficient so
adding to the base Supply still helps
see also kardashev scale
non-exclusivity post
biological Multiverse and alternate
reality aliens our universe is huge and
likely expands far beyond the observable
portion and the cosmological Event
Horizon but it may be a tiny spot in
comparison to all reality in the multiv
Force as such if travel is possible
between here and that wider realm we
must not only consider how migration to
it might appeal compared to Interstellar
migration but if we might get visitors
from such multiv veres as an example any
given Multiverse that develops travel
should travel to more than one of its
cousins meaning a lot of visitations
also if it is easier to step from here
to one of the many copies of Earth where
Humanity never evolved or died off early
that is vastly easier colonization than
Interstellar travel and wor there would
be far more uninhabited Earth clones
than planets in our observable universe
and probably a far higher ratio than one
in a quadrillion of such Wards to one
where Humanity or some other
intelligence emerged so this is a case
that is both a decent fory Paradox
solution if reality is set up this way
as well as one that might only
exacerbate the fory Paradox if true as
we would need to worry about visitors or
Invaders from other realities not just
other stars see your episodes for me
Paradox Multiverse and Multiverse
Warfare for more discussion see also
great silence inter Universe migration
perpetual motion machines Multiverse and
alternate reality aliens solution
exacerbates the firmy Paradox time
travel neurohacking for happiness
similar to Virtual Utopia this idea
contemplates that Humanity might prefer
artificial Wards or mind states to
colonize the Galaxy however it assume
such specific approach of us putting
wires into our head that stimulate our
pleasure cers this has a non-exclusivity
element of many people potentially
finding that undesirable to try but we
can contemplate involuntary options like
a tyranny using it to keep people in
line however such a civilization ought
to have a desire to expand its resources
even if just by mining them elsewhere
and bringing them in it is possible they
would not have great and reliable
automation the way a virtual Utopia
essentially has to have but but unlikely
this is a technology that is likely very
possible and sooner than not tackling it
might be a late filter at the same time
we also have other Sensations like
stimulating satisfaction or sadness or
preventing boredom that can shift the
dynamic we would expect to happen away
from the implication of billions of
people sitting in a cheerful drooling
stupor also there's no implication that
technology would leave you in a state of
stuper I can see many different ways
this could turn out and thus for that
reason can't see it being a firy paradox
solution merely a decent later filter as
there is no obvious and convergent
inding for such Tech and civilization
with it one more interesting scenario
though would be our homet shoplifter
hypothesis in tandem with this being a
vulnerable Ward scenario as people might
flee with this technology to deep
Intergalactic space to enjoy it on their
own for eons by themselves where no one
can unhook them while those who avoid
the tech or use to to control others
might find themselves self-imposing a
quarantine not letting anyone expand
outside their grip until eventually the
place collapses see also hermit
shoplifter hypothesis self-imposed
quarantine virtual reality
Utopia nihilism or onwe one of the more
common concerns for civilizations is
they may come to a state of nihilism or
onwe where they simply feel they have no
purpose or collapse while normally this
would seem at odds with non-exclusivity
as we would not expect every person of
civilization let alone every
civilization to suddenly feel their
existence had no purpose this formy
Paradox solution argues that this is an
inevitable state of all civilizations
something they must converge to that
existence has no meaning or purpose and
thus it is inevitable that civilizations
that are constantly growing more
intelligent and knowledgeable will come
to this conclusion it is also often
suggested as a fate for non- Biologicals
such as a computer mind that will leap
into ascensions and begin building its
brain bigger and bigger until it becomes
so smart it can't escape the realization
its existence does not matter too clever
to fall for self-deceptions and that
continuing doesn't serve any purpose and
shuts itself off if it began by wiping
out all the biological life around it
Skynet style this would become a
convergent solution for the formy
Paradox since we tend to assume everyone
invents computers and this would be an
example of a technological Time Bomb
whereas a ization simply drifting into a
feeling of pointlessness would fall more
into the category of a psychic poison
while a popular solution or rather a
popular category of solutions this has a
few big flaws first it is assuming life
genuinely does not have a meaning or
purpose which for my part I don't
believe but regardless is not something
proven one way or another and honestly
not something we would expect science to
ever usefully answer so it would be hard
to imagine a convincing enti
civilization without exception though
there is an assumption they may have
grown vastly more intelligent and
self-honest albe at this itself is it
odds with other for me Paradox solutions
that assume intelligence and Technology
create an environment where de Evolution
occurs and intelligence diminishes over
time as we see in the film idiocracy and
explored in our episode human de
Evolution morlocks and chuds second it
is assuming that a feeling of lacking
purpose in an ultimate existential sense
would cause inevitable mass suicide and
and that is clearly not true for humans
as well that can definitely lead to
depression there are a lot of people who
function for decades while depressed and
also lots of nihilists I know who do
seem to operate just fine to be fair
this could be an example of cognitive
dissonance and while we assume ultr
smart people or logical machines would
be immune to this I have my doubts we'll
explore them more in next month's
episode nihilistic aliens and third even
if all that were true it still doesn't
mean it would get every one since there
are lots of people who presumably
actively avoid thinking about it and if
necessary convince themselves and the
remainder of their civilization that
even contemplating that type of question
was inherently dangerous something I
think many of us already at least
partially believe anyway if half your
civilization falls into despair then the
other half probably being aware of why
has every reason to begin taking
preventative action even including
active dishonesty to themselves and
their citizens or including
indoctrination tactics or outright
brainwashing against believing it though
again the idea is that folks might
eventually get too SM to fall for it
even for a moment and that is always an
option for all those reasons I tend to
feel this is not a strong solution for
the fory Paradox but is one of the more
disturbing Solutions because it does
feel like it has some Merit see also
non-exclusivity psychic poison
technological singularity technological
time
bombs non exclus exclusivity
non-exclusivity is not a firmly Paradox
solution but rather the mindfield that
most proposed Solutions die in it is
very common for a solution to assume
some Behavior or capability that is
universal in practice we cannot assume
very many things are for instance the
space race was conducted between the
mostly communist Soviet Union and the
mostly capitalist United States and both
groups got significant victories in that
race so we have no reason to believe
that space travel is exclusive Ive to
capitalist or communist economic systems
we may find one tends to be more common
or successful or that both are Rarities
but space travel and settlement would
seem to be non-exclusive to economic
systems and many other traits would also
be non-exclusive whether they played
baseball or football whether they were
redhaired or blonde or bald had hands or
tentacles beli in Santa Claus or not
would all seem factors that had little
to no impact on their ability to make
spaceships now some things probably do
have exclusivity for instance we can
assume building spaceships is exclusive
to civilizations with a knowledge of
basic math and physics we can imagine
exceptions but exclusivity need not be
100% it just needs to be so high as to
count as a strong filter we assume a lot
of plants are covered in water and may
hold intelligent lifik Dolphins but be
incapable of fire and thus cannot invent
technology some may eventually but if
only one in one 1,000 submarine
civilizations get to space and we only
get one intelligent civilization arising
po Galaxy then these would still be so
rare as not presentent a problem for the
fory Paradox it would also mean there
were millions of these starfaring
dolphin species in the observable
universe as a reminder that the universe
is way bigger than our galaxy is
non-exclusivity is one of the most
important tools for examing the Paradox
and is a tricky one at times because
people often have a preferred solution
that matches up their own ideology and
so it is easy to believe that solution
and that all alien civilizations
converge that belief which may well be
true too we couldn't really say for sure
until we have scattered Interstellar
colonies that hold disperate views from
each other on set issue though for my
own part I tend to assume many systems
can be made to work if not all as well
and that high-tech post scarcity
civilizations can make a lot of systems
walk by sheer abundance and brute force
and that space colonization will often
be most attractive to those who want a
clean canvas to set societies up on if
you've got a minority religious or
political view jumpy on Starships with a
bunch of your allies for a new world has
its appeal and a lot of people back home
might cheerfully fund the Endeavor to
send your most fanatical followers away
and just assume your Colony will
collapse or change views with time
strangled by its own smug ideals still
this is the main rebuttal of challenges
to a proposed solution as violating
non-exclusivity that the Behavior or
trait in question may not be Universal
but that it is so strongly convergent
that very nearly every civilization
capable of space travel will get this
Behavior or trait before getting to the
interstellar scale or that only
civilizations with this trait or
behavior last long thus maybe only half
haveit when they began but after a
millennia 99% who didn't go extinct and
the average Interstellar civilization
lasted a million years then
99.999% of civilizations currently
around would have that behavior for
trait needless to say the arguments for
convergence should be very strong ones
as should those for why a given
semi-exclusive trait need not be like
building an Interstellar spaceship when
you can't figure out basic math and even
strongly logical reasons need to be
questioned after all if someone were to
prove conclusively that Free Will and
purpose didn't exist CI many logical
people to give up on life you would
still have lots of logical folks who did
not and lots of folks who refuse to even
discuss the option or review that
evidence so to computers would seem a
no-brainer for space travel but Advanced
ones beyond what we currently have or
even had in the 1990s are not necessary
for navigating space even inell space so
a civilization very worried about AI
could ban Advanced Computing and
probably still colonize space that one
exception might be the only surviving
civilization of thousands that arose in
their Galaxy and yet they could settle
the whole place including the burned out
or gry good planets where AI ran a muck
and wiped everyone out on the other hand
just because it is possible for some
space whale species to evolve in an
asteroid belt and naturally adapt for
Interstellar travel does not mean this
occurs often enough to really circumvent
the exclusive relationship of developing
space travel and a knowledge of Science
of course that probably dissolves the
caveat of keeping in mind that what's
normal probably isn't what's right for
the fory Paradox if 99% of species wipe
themselves out within a century of
inventing weapons of mass destruction
that 1% remaining is still sufficient to
colonize the Galaxy it is inside and
even its neighboring galaxies colonized
by the lucky freaks who didn't succumb
to normal odds normal for space fairing
civilizations is generally what we
ultimately mean after all what seems
normal for life on most planets at the
moment is that it does not exist is dead
or is very stunted and minimal see also
ISM or on WE technological
singularity ocean to land ratio water is
one of the most common molecules in the
universe and so common that most of this
planet is covered in it at an average of
a few miles deep if Earth had half as
much water or double it would look very
very different and Earth is constantly
losing hydrogen 2/3 of the atoms in
water to atmospheric stripping most
plants would begin with a great deal
more hydrogen than Earth currently has
and lose it based on many factors but
principally their Sun spectrum and
intensity at their planets and that
planet's own gravity or esape velocity
We Believe Earth left to its own devices
will be a dead desert planet in roughly
another billion years long before the
sun becomes a red giant the universe may
be full of fossilized WS covered in sand
dunes where the clock ran out as their
Sun heat up their W and stole it season
Sky if Earth were bigger then we would
likely have more hydrogen than now and
Prin as water making us an ocean planet
if we were less massive or closer to our
sun or its Spectrum horal we might have
lost all our seas and sky before ever
the first animal evolved out of the
ocean to live on land this may mean very
few planets have a window where there's
a lot of dry land for life to develop
fire and Technology on during the time
intelligent life exists we may be in
extreme Rarity of having developed land
life and Technology while land existed
to do it on though alun we have found a
lot of water is in our pling mantle and
depth of sea and pressure of the ocean
bottom likely plays a role in how much
is shoved into the mantle so there may
be self-regulating Cycles in play that
favor conditions allowing a good mix of
sea and land see episodes ocean planets
and hean Wards for more discussion the
implications of more water see also
filter Rare Earth rare
Sun orbital eccentricity while we always
picture orbits as circles in truth they
are all elliptical and how stretched
they are is the eccentricity of that
ellipse or orbit where a circle has zero
eccentricity and one stretched be a
nearly flat line has an eccentricity of
one the more Ecentric an orbit the more
its sunlight varies over the year as a
planet further from the sun gets less
this is not the cause of Seasons That's
axal tilt but Earth is closest to the
Sun in January and furthest in July
about 2 weeks after each Solstice and
backwards what fol in the northern
hemisphere would tend to expect a planet
twice as far from the sun gets a quarter
of the light so a high e centricity
Planet would have the equivalent of a
season from its eccentricity in a case
like that and may be rendered
uninhabitable by too much eccentricity
especially as plants spend more of their
time on their outer track than when
closer to their stall and bigger stalls
would have more distant habitable zones
with longer orbital periods which might
make a winter a year long if done this
way oh alternatively a red dwarf may
have seasonal variation even on a tily
locked Planet via
eccentricity however while Earth has low
eccentricity it is not impressively low
both Neptune and Venus have more
circular orbits around the Sun so we
conclude that E centricity is at most a
minor filter of the fory Paradox though
would contribute to a wide or Rare Earth
great filter see also axial tilt filter
great filter Rare
Earth our galaxy isn't the whole whole
universe one of the most common
oversights in discussion of the firy
Paradox is to treat our galaxy like it
is an island on reachable for others and
to ignore that if the observable
universe will compare to our planet in
size our own Galaxy would be about the
size of a house on that planet and that
galaxies tend to be spaced out much like
houses some share walls or separated by
strips of land no wider than that house
others are surrounded by several times
their dimension in undeveloped land but
for comparison there's probably only
about a trillion cubic Au of space
inhabitable zones of stars in this
galaxy while there's many trillions of
times more space that isn't in a
habitable zone even under optimistic
models in this galaxy so thinking of
traveling between galaxies is not
contemplating the same sort of jump and
scale that traveling between stars or
even planets is also there's lots of
random stars in between most galaxies
that can serve as way points and a
civilization that developed a billion
years ago when our our universe was just
under 13 billion years old not just shy
14 as now and could only travel at 10%
of light speed would still have
plausibly colonized 100 million Lighty
years of space all around them by now so
we cannot assume some freak occurrence
in this galaxy is the answer to the for
me Paradox since if life was wiped out
here 4 billion years ago and Earth was
just the forc of many to recently
develop intelligence again that would
not explain why someone from another
galaxy hadn't settled this galaxy in the
meantime we also cannot ignore that
advanced civilizations on the ctera
scale who colonize their whole galaxy
are likely to qualify as loud aliens and
to such a degree as to be visible to us
even when hundreds of millions of light
years away such as contemplated in the
Dyson dilemma this is also only
exacerbated by FTL fast and light travel
since it not only means people could
jump galaxies easier but introduces
areas outside our absorbable Universe
into play that universe beyond the
cosmological Event Horizon horon may be
infinite we do not know but we are
confident it is likely many times bigger
than our observable region possibly many
trillions of times and could have sent
Cony fleets into our region by now too
via FTL see also Dyson dilemma FTL
faster than light travel kardashev scale
loud aliens solution exacerbates the
firmy
Paradox oxygen content oxygen is a
weired substance it reacts with NE
everything and is a core element of
water one of the most abundant molecules
in the universe and the de facto king of
solvents for Solutions life might arise
in though we have contemplated other
options like ammonia in its own episode
as such oxygen is very necessary to
known biochemistry and free oxygen is
critical to Modern biological life but
it was once a poison emitted as a waste
product of early life oxygen is hyper
abundant throughout the cosmos as the
third most common element distantly
behind hydrogen helium and makes up the
largest portion of atoms on most
terrestrial planets and moons and while
poisonous it was very easy for it to be
absorbed into local rocks but as life
grew more abundant and active it
overwhelmed the ability of local geology
to churn around and expose more
materials to reabsorb emitted oxygen
allowing the concentration to slowly
build up this was a slow event and
allowed many organisms to not only adapt
to it but Thrive by using oxygen to
breathe and as you and I and every
animal now does inhaling O2 and exhaling
CO2 carbon
dioxide higher concentrations can be
handy for allowing mobile breathing life
but to higher concentration might expose
a planet to constant forest fires plets
with slower or faster tectonics might
either allow such an atmospheric
saturation of oxygen to happen too
quickly for life to adapt to killing all
life off or be so quick to chor that no
significant amount of free oxygen ever
develops for animals to breathe this may
be an issue with tail forming mini
planets that require Brute Force
techniques to keep sufficient oxygen in
the air free oxygen is also one of our
strongest candidates for an
astronomically visible biocal on
exoplanet as we have few other suspected
natural causes for free oxygen to be
abundant besides a presence of Life see
also Rare Earth tectonic
activity
pan spermia we do not yet know how life
began on Earth and while deep sea Thermo
Vents and tidle pools have been popular
candidates another scientific theory for
the origin of life is that may have
germinated on comets and been spread to
Earth and perhaps other WS when those
impacted Earth and we believe brought
the water that made our oceans should we
find Life on Mars or Venus or Europa
that shared any basic DNA with
terrestrial life it would indicate this
method of pans speria had either
occurred or a parallel process had
occurred that had moved life from the
planet it began on to the others but
there are many other types of pans
speria that might occur including
Interstellar options that might permeate
an entire galaxy over time as we explore
in space whales and bios ships indeed
some argue that life evolving to become
space fairing naturally or artificially
and colonizing a galaxy in the process
is the inevitable Purp of life and
similar Notions would apply to
civilizations that created new universes
and spread light to them or to dead
universes however while it is a common
concept to be raised in regard to the
formy Paradox it is not a solution and
indeed might exacerbate the problem
since it would imply interplanetary or
even Interstellar colonization by simple
organisms is probable and thus space
failing technological civilization
surely could and given our fossil record
it is abundant ly clear that at most the
very simplest early steps of Life
occurred off Earth with the rest being
on this planet and subject to any other
Rare Earth filters that would apply to
life which had originated a tidle pool
or deep sea vent locally see also filter
percolation Theory Rare Earth rare
intelligence percolation Theory
percolation theory is an approach the
for Paradox via mathematical modeling to
where we assume the initial point of
colonization sends out Colony ships to
colonies that eventually might send out
their own first done by Jeffrey Landis
in the early '90s this has become a
common basic model for Galactic
colonization and posits that once these
colonies are established they basically
act independently as disconnected nodes
with only loose ties to neighbors that
you can only set a colony ship so far
and that many colonies will be long
sending out their own colonies and may
never do so or may fail to successfully
establish thems elves something examined
more in the newer concept the Aurora
effect I would generally view both as an
attempt to rebutt the heart Tipo
conjecture while this is an essentially
logical model much like Drake's equation
it has some potential conceptual flaws
first it is assuming slow interst travel
not just slower than light speed but
typically 1% light speed or less what we
call colonizing I have no objection to
lack of FTL but the model does not
really sove much for once we get to more
relativistic speeds and don't assume
colonists are being Ultra picky about
what stars they settle ships do not need
fuel to keep moving so have no limit on
their range besides patience and
internal life support energy and
supplies and the Very existence of any
Generation ship requires technology that
makes settling any star system viable
not just Earth Sun analoges in that
context if we are assuming Colony ships
moving 5 to 10% of light speed or higher
and settling any system they come across
not taking several centuries to get to
the nearest Earth Sun analog it's not
really a matter of population just more
like a wave Rippling out from the home
World any local impedance just doesn't
matter much in the waves reaching the
shores of that pond we also should not
assume the next viable system for
colonization is typically being reached
by the nearest developed Colony odds are
Good Earth was still be sending out
Colony fleets long after it seeded the
nearest thousand or so systems since
that's only region about 30 light years
around Earth and that each is likely to
grow exponentially towards being a Dyson
swarm or Car 2 civilization and probably
only needs a few thousand years to get
there at which point it would be able to
send a robust Colonial Fleet to every
single star system in their region of
the Galaxy without denting their
resources Beyond making a minor footnote
in their system budget in scenarios like
this there is no reason not to assume
colonization isn't generally moving out
at nearly the speed their ships can
travel and not needing to much consider
Lea frogging because there's always more
developed systems a little further
behind sending out Colony ships not the
nearest neighboring colonized system
that's a very different picture than
when we look at the same volume of 30
lights and say there's only about 20
yellow Suns that region and assume maybe
10% of them have a planet worth trying
to settle and teror form and so maybe
two or three would get colonized and
thousands of years later might have
grown to the point of considering Sunny
a ship of their own to two or three
viable candidates near them it also
doesn't assume options like seed ships
automated vessels that do virtually all
the colonial work ahead of your Revival
or Garden or ships which are ships or
fleets that just stop at a system unload
about half their crew and passengers
while loading up on fuel and raw
materials then head off to the next
location breeding up to full strength
during the trip and building Colonial
gear during the process in the 20th
century Humanity doubled its population
twice so it would be very easy to
believe a high-tech civilization with
options like life extension technology
and advanced automation might have no
problem zigzagging their way out to the
galactic Rim colonizing a system at
every stop occasionally building an
extra ship for their colonial Fleet and
dividing that Fleet every so often to
Branch their way out to the edge of the
Galaxy and Beyond As We examined in our
life in a space Colony series and our
generation ships series A again there's
nothing wrong with pulation theory in of
itself but it's presupposing each New
Colony only has a few candidates for
future settlement in reach and cannot
draw on their home world for any help
this can be partially true if we never
make anything better than the Ryan drive
work and more conser of assumption of
its speed at that but it's still
assuming too sharp a cut off on what
systems people would settle and develop
one caveat though this approach still
walks in some of our more highspeed
colony options as we have discussed
hurling Colonial fleets out of our
system by enormous pushing lasers and
aiming them towards black holes a large
way across the Galaxy where they can
change direction and slow or into
enormous red giants where they can burn
speed off passing through their very
thin upper atmospheres so whereas a
fusion powered ship might be limited 10%
of light speed and cause a colonization
wave out at perhaps 5% of light speed or
slower some pushing beam driven system
might leave our system at half of light
speed they could then arrive at a region
of the Galaxy 10,000 light years away in
20,000 years where a normal colonization
at 5% might reach it in 200,000 years in
this way large and uncommon red giants
or rare black holes become Ultra
valuable Galactic real estate from which
new spheres of colonization would emerge
in a fashion more akin to the model of
population Theory this can also apply to
Intergalactic col ization see also
Aurora effect Dyson dilemma dr's
equation heart tipler
conjecture perpetual motion machines
perpetual motion machines are an example
of a technology that tends to throw
chaos into futureal predictions as it's
a technology that disrupts a lot of our
normal limitations on Space settlement
as well as our motivations for doing
development for instance a civilization
with an infinite and compact source of
energy does not need to spend time
building Dyson swarms or worry about
resource Hoarding in the face of
inevitable entropy typically such
empowering Technologies only exacerbate
the formy Paradox since they make
colonization so much easier and faster
but in this case the technology just has
so many hardto predict side effects to
permit that as a solid conclusion for
instance a civilization with such a
power source might decide its best
pathway for long-term survival is to
make sure no alien menace can reach it
and as as we often joke on this show if
you explore Interstellar space and don't
find any alien civilizations just wait a
bit because your own scattered and
Divergent colonies will effectively
become alien and as such a threat where
one wouldn't have existed before and
which you do not need since you have an
unlimited energy Supply which can be
used to produce new matter too
alternately far distant alien
civilizations have no reason to bother
with you or vice versa as you have
nothing they need and represent no
Menace a proximate sibling might such as
one that thought it had a claim on
cultural or religious relics or
territories or alternatively that power
supply might function by opening a
portal to a younger and more energetic
universe that you might be preferring to
migrate to or get invaded from it's not
that these options are particularly
likely it's that the technology
introduces too many unpredictable
effects for us to make reliable
predictions about how they would behave
or what they would look like as another
example we often say there's an absence
of CF 3 civilizations out in the wider
Universe because we'd expect far more
infrared waste heat in a galaxy they
control than any we see but a perpetual
motion machine is the sort of technology
that would not reliably leave that sort
of signature and of course utterly
violates the known laws of physics see
also solution exacerbates the firmy
Paradox post biological post biological
is a catchall term for any advanced life
form whose overall physiology or
psychology is more artificial or
engineered than natural such as we would
expect from artificial intelligence
Androids uplifted organisms cyborgs late
stage transhumans or more metaphysical
ascended or transcended entities there
is a tendency to assume space fairing
civilizations are more than likely
populated by these its principal
relevance to the formy Paradox is that
our default assumption under the heart
typal conjecture is that space fairing
civilizations tend to have the same
motivations we expect from anything
produced by darwinian Evolution or Orly
civilization which is to say we assume
an AI that wipes us out we'll be
intelligent and aggressive and growth
oriented as that's what evolution tends
to favor but post-biological life might
suppress or remove or re-engineer their
minds and biologies to alter these
paradigms and become less predictable in
that regard it also Alters what sort of
Mega structures they might build as a
computer mind might mostly want Power
collectors and computer chips not
simulated gravity cylinder habitats and
terraformed planets and may be more
interested in Ultra lowrisk personal
survival strategies based around
billion-year timelines or longer not our
own Centennial approach nonetheless many
strategies would be expected to still
conform to the idea of survival of the
individual or greater whole and utilize
Logic for determining the right action
and course see also heart tipler
conjecture
prime directive this solution drives
from the prime directive of Starfleet in
stal Trek that no primitive civilization
is to be interfered with and has some
clear roots in our own rather Checker
colonial era on Earth in that regard is
not to hard to imagine civilizations
older and wiser than us choosing to
leave us alone though at this point that
would tend to require fairly actively
tinkering to hide themselves from us too
which is arguably still interference
since you are tampering with Cor
scientific evidence they can gather
about the state of the universe around
them in any event this is one of the
most hotly debated topics of
extraterrestrial speculation and we have
done entire episodes on it both smug
aliens and fory Paradox prime directive
take a look at some of the flaws
strengths reasons and challenges of this
approach in detail It suffers strongly
from non-exclusivity though as you must
Explain how and why you were able to
maintain a quarantine around a planet
for millions of of years with any hope
of success in the face of changing
perspective of your own civilization
resource budgets of folks objecting to
maintaining an unending quarantine
members of your civilization that will
gladly trade their lives to save
Primitives from a plague or asteroid and
rival Empires who might not agree and
dare you to fire on their ships we
rarely see the Klingons fangi or
romulans flying to primitive Wards near
the Federation and Just landing on them
because unless St fleet was willing to
shoot at them every time it would tend
to show how enforceable this policy is
in the long term or rather how
unenforceable it is see also
interdiction hypothesis quarantine
hypothesis Zoo
hypothesis psychic poison psychic poison
is a broad class of hypothesis for how
civilizations might destroy themselves
in more existential ways than a nuclear
war or unleashing a homicidal
superintelligent computer computer mind
some common example suggested would be a
planet that came to believe that Free
Will was an illusion or cease to believe
there was any purpose to existence or
Reason to strive toward goals or more
literally some very intense narcotic
that is intensely pleasurable or
relaxing but leaves its users in no fit
state to pursue goals like space
colonization or long-term stable
civilizations other options can include
adopting a given political or economic
system that someone feels inevitably
leads to ruin these are often fairly
subjective and many do run into
difficulties with non-exclusivity as
there is no reason to assume everyone on
a given planet does this let alone
universally across unconnected galaxies
with species that might have very
different social and neurological
architectures nonetheless it is one of
the more popular and populated
categories of FY Paradox Solutions and
many of the other Solutions today could
be viewed as examples of these sorts of
psychic poisons or overlap into them
these differ from technological time
bombs in that these are assumed to be
more psychological or sociological but
they may overlap see also
non-exclusivity technological Time
Bomb quarantine
hypothesis quarantine hypothesis is a
subset or cousant of zoo hypothesis that
assumes orth is viewed as dangerous in
some fashion and thus has to be
quarantined from contact this has the
same problem Zoo hypothesis has of
asking why anyone would go to such an
elaborate effort to keep us in the dark
but also since it implies danger asking
why they don't simply wipe us out or
alter us and indeed they might have
since one approach post biological space
faning civilizations might use is to
send in a lot of Nanobots to quietly dig
into our brains copy them upload our
minds to some virtual reality kill our
physical bodies and keep that virtual
world running on some Mega computer
built out of all planets or some
fortified asteroid inside the their own
core WS there are many proposed reasons
for such quarantines us being violent by
nature is one especially that leaves an
obvious implied reason why they wouldn't
stoop to killing us off but folks have
suggested many others over the years as
popular in sci-fi such a quarantine
might be temporary too merely until we
reach a certain stage of development
until which time we under Prime director
style non-interference quarantine and
there may be fleets surrounding our
system waiting to blow up Invaders one
issue with this though is the
implication you are trying to maintain a
quarantine for potentially millions of
years because you found some smart
monkeys on some Planet which seems
impractical to the point of
impossibility something we explored more
in our episode smug aliens see also
prime directive quarantine is
self-imposed Zoo
hypothesis quarantine is self-imposed
quarantine is self-imposed is a
variation of quarantine where a world
knowingly prevents travel away from
their home world or sometimes are
ignorant of it but their government
knows such as if we had secret UFO
technology as many believe this may be
because their totalitarian dictators are
afraid of rebels on distant Wars or fear
they might breed enemies by settling
Interstellar space with devoran cousins
or because they fear we might bring home
some ruin by poking our noses out in the
Deep talk of interstellar space or on
some ancient and dangerous World they
may also have been Tor by by some
greater Empire to keep to their home
world or they'd lose protection or
invite retribution see also prime
directive quarantine hypothesis Zoo
hypothesis quiet aliens quiet aliens are
those who contribute to the great
silence the absorbed condition of the
universe by modern astronomy and SEI
quiets aliens are by definition the only
kind we currently observe since they
preserve the formy Paradox and Loud
aliens are what we are looking for with
SEI this essentially is the default
state of most aliens discussed as
solutions to the fory Paradox and covers
everything from those who hide or never
colonize space to those who flee to
other realities or go extinct quickly
see also great silence loud aliens
set Rare Earth hypothesis Rare Earth
probably represents the largest single
area of discussion of the FY Paradox as
it Loosely includes the subcategories of
r sun Ryo solar system Ryo Galaxy R
complexity Ryo intelligence and R
technology it also represents our
primary great filter as this generally
thought to include many lesser filters
which compound together everything from
How likely life is to originate as
simple primordial cells to develop a
brain and every step in between in
addition to factors like geology gravity
atmosphere makeup and density which has
changed over Earth's history drastically
ocean to surface ratios geological
events the size of our moon the
characteristics of our sun the
importance of asteroids or jupiter-like
planets planetary orbital eccentricity
and many many more for the purpose of
today's video we are treating Rare Earth
as mostly meaning Earth's Own traits and
the path of life from abiogenesis to
basic brains while giving other
subcategories separate treatment more
broadly it is every fil to accept the
late filters see also carbon and
nitrogen ratios compounding filter
critical element scarcity filter great
filter ocean to land ratio rare
intelligence rare Sun rare technology
tectonic
activity rare intelligence rare
intelligence is a general category of
formy paradox solutions that assumes
intelligence is uncommon in the universe
and while this technically includes both
Rare Earth Solutions and rare Technology
Solutions we generally mean that life is
common enough but large brains are rare
to evolve this might include the
development of complex brains of any
significant size and as we detailed in
our episode rare intelligence there are
a number of evolutionary barriers to
intelligence along with circumstances
which make larger brains a hindrance
while we have a tensy assume High
Intelligence is the greatest survival
trait and an inevitable End Road for
evolution this is not indicated under
our current understanding of
evolutionary biology so it may be that
intelligence is a relative anomaly in a
wider Universe full of alien life but
not much thought see also filter Rare
Earth rare Sun rare
technology rare Sun rare sun or rare
solar system includes a large variety of
possible filters varying from if a star
is stable in its output such as we
looked at in our episode fromy Paradox
solar flares to if the star lives long
enough for life to evolve or is so dim
that only plants close enough to be tily
locked might be warm enough for life
this is probably not a strong candidate
for a great filter as while our sun
seems more stable than most it doesn't
seem to have any particular traits that
are very uncommon nonetheless this area
includes many probable filters Stell
Spectrum helps to torment if a star is
likely to rip off atmospheres from their
planets and the brightness of stars
increases over time moving one cord
plets into the habitable zone while
pushing other once habitable plets into
becoming desert wastelands that
eventually would lose all seas and
atmospher smaller dimmer systems may
have habitable zones too cluttered with
debris to form stable planets bigger gas
giants might migrate and perturb
planetary orbits binary systems may have
few options for long-term stable
habitable planets and so on while a
technological civilization should be
able to make homes around nearly any
type of star it is quite likely that
stars introduce many harsh conditions to
life see also filter Goldilocks zone
Great
filter rare technology rare technology
is the filter that suggest intelligence
might be decently common but that
technology is less so and in this
context there's worth remembering that
there are many intelligent animals on
Earth but technology of any simple type
is rare not totally absent shimps use
sticks for instance but it is notable
that we think humans invented such
simple tools and discovered fire a
million years ago or more it's only been
the last 10,000 years we got pottery and
metal walking which means for 99% of the
time we had fire we didn't use it for
making metal or Ceramics so too some
plants wouldn't be very fire friendly
such as places that rained like crazy or
were covered in water and bogs or had
such high oxygen content that fires were
very brief and dangerous we discussed
these options more in our rare
technology episode see also Rare Earth
rare
intelligence recent Galactic catastrophe
or War a common suggestion for why life
might be common but not spread all over
every store yet is that has only
recently germinated the space fairing
races and two popular reasons why are
that there was either a big catastrophe
maybe 4 billion years ago that Earth
formed or got life after or that this
catastrophe was some sort of war or that
this war was more recent and got all the
intelligent life specifically like some
psychic bomb these are very common in
science fiction Larry nen's known space
and ring board setting as an example
Mass Effect is Stargates babon 5 and
tons of Space Opera where we try to
explain why Humanity might be able to
emerge on a galactic stage where others
are already present but not a billion
years ahead of us and occupying every
planet and viewing us as little more
than primitive of insects and not
because they are particularly smug or
self- Superior just that far ahead much
as we are to actual insects or amoeba
the key problem here Beyond no evidence
for it which is true of nearly every
fory Paradox solution anyway is that our
galaxy is not the whole universe and
traveling between galaxies is not that
much harder than traveling across one so
you would need to assume somehow a war
catastrophe took place that got folks in
something like a billion Lightyear wide
radius and FTL would only exacerbate
that problem since a war might then be
fought over such a distance but then
Colonus could arrive from outside that
war zone after it was done too see also
burst cers and hibernating monsters our
galaxy isn't the whole
universe region of Galaxy some regions
of the Galaxy may be more or less
suitable for Life as we explored our
episode Galactic habitable zones and
while this would not fall under our rare
earth or rare Sun or solar system
categories it follows from the same
principle just at a wider Galactic scale
this could include local nebuli gening
lots of supern noi or regions of low
metallicity from not enough supern noi
or low star formation rates proximity to
large numbers of Stellar remnants being
too close to the center of the Galaxy
too far and many other factors explored
in the aforementioned episode which also
explores the possibility that some
entire galaxies may be unfavorable to
life and that even Galactic super
clusters might have habitable zones see
also Rare Earth rare
Sun resource Hoarding in the formy
Paradox resource hoarding covers the
idea the under known physics that is
advantageous to stockpile resources for
future use even if you have no immediate
use for them this is the reminder that
low hanging easy to grab resources like
asteroids are prone to getting ejected
from Star systems or falling into
planets or Suns where gravity makes them
hard to get and that those Suns
themselves can be harvested by star
lifting and are buring through fuel at a
huge rate our sun goes through over 600
megatons of Fusion fuel a second energy
to support untour billions for an entire
extended lifetime burned every moment
and wasted on lighting up the extra
Galactic void with less than one Photon
in a billion destined to ever land on
any planet's leaves with that in mind we
tend to assume even civilizations that
are not prone to growth and expansion
all prone to wanting to harvest the
Galaxy and any major attempts to do so
will automatically qualify them as loud
aliens and solve the formy Paradox by
making those efforts blatantly visible
astronomically indeed even a very
benevolent race might build a partial
Dyson swarm around a star A Primitive
species dwelt near so as not to let the
energy go to waste and to offer it to
them as a welcome to the Galaxy gift
down the road there's just too many
reasons to gather those resources and
too many ways it could be done even by
species who didn't want to leave their
own solar system see also Dyson
dilemma Rim migration Rim migration is
the idea that cold is beneficial to
post-biological life as is believed to
make computation far more efficient with
the same energy with this in mind it is
thought that many civilizations or
post-biological entities might head out
to deep space both for that Cod and for
protection of isolation and emptiness
from accident competition and Malice in
this regard the galactic rim and Beyond
seem ideal indeed some thought ring
galaxies might be evidence of such Mass
migration before we could see them
better however there seems no clear
reasons for a fast Rush there by anyone
let alone everyone so we would expect
resource hoarding or even moving stars
in their entirety on Galactic ejection
paths with Shikata of thrusters or other
stellar engine designs looked at an
Omega structural compendium which again
might look similar to a ring Galaxy
while occurring see also estation
hypothesis Dyson dilemma hermit
shoplifter
hypothesis SII Medi daian SEI CI is the
search for extraterrestrial intelligence
as well as the name of the largest group
involved in that effort The cityi
Institute while traditionally this is
mostly been about toning telescopes on
locations to look for signals it also
includes the hunt for technos Cals on
planets which might be visible at Great
distances as well as dysonian CTI the
hunt for Dyson swarms or carf 2 or three
civilizations this process can include
hunting for active beacons aimed at us
or ort Communications we might overhear
or byproducts of such civilizations like
they are infrared waste heat or Starship
Drive signatures which might indicate
certain types of power sources you also
don't necessarily need a clear signal to
detect communication odds are good most
civilizations use high amounts of signal
compression even on messages which are
not encrypted and Signal compression is
basically designed to remove patterns
from signals with a note saying the
pattern was removed a note saying the
next 12,000 pixels are white is lower
data than 12,000 entries in a row saying
white. here for instance and that makes
our modern signals hard to recognize as
signals and likely would make alien
comms often look very noisy and harder
to recognize but you still would have
large and unnatural sources of some
radio wavelength that would tell you a
signal was present these are the sorts
of methods seti offers us but we also
have what is called active SEI or medy
messaging extraterrestrial intelligences
this is where instead of pointing a
telescope somewhere we point a
transmitter instead and say hello This
concerns many people for as it's
potentially telling a hostile
civilization that you're there but
realistically no one with practical
Interstellar travel who might send an
armada here to attack isn't going to
know we are here anyway Earth didn't
magically appear when radio was invented
it's been giving off bio Cur for most of
its existence and a civilization that
can send fleets can also more easily
send probes to do flybys and spot this
obviously inhabited planet at which
point it would be logical to send a
periodic Pro or dedicate a big telescope
to monitor for signs of intelligence
like tons of controlled files canals
roads giant walls pyramids and so on all
visible from space for this reason media
is probably safe enough as it's unlikely
to raise our exposure to an alien menace
if one is close enough to hear us one
last type of set of note is laser C
which assumes that signals are often
sent by a more focused beam rather than
an omnidirectional broadcast
and if someone were trying to
communicate with us they might just have
a beam on our planet or our in solar
system and we haven't spotted it yet
although we might see scattered
reflections of those beams inside highly
populated alien star systems full
communication or even power transfer see
also kardashev
scale simulation argument simulation
argument or simulation hypothesis is an
example of a common concept involved in
the fory parad
that would technically be a solution but
not a very useful one see simulation
hypothesis episode or are we living in a
simulation for a full discussion of the
concept but the usual idea is that if it
is possible and practical to emulate or
simulate a human mind then it is very
likely any Universe it is possible and
practical to do the in likely has many
simulated realities built inside it and
thus it would be more likely than not
that as such Sims are possible and
practical that you are in one
as they make up the majority of
realities with intelligence in them this
mostly does not impact the formy Paradox
in the sense that everything we see is
simulated and odds all good whoever
built it kept the internal physics
similar to their own and self-consistent
so if they only want one civilization po
supercluster they just tweak the initial
conditions to match that if it is an
ancestor simulation specifically then is
assumed to be identical to ours in
nearly every respect and likely has the
same reason for the formy Paradox
however there are a lot of caveats and
cases where this universe being a
particular type of simulation or certain
apparent conditions of the universe
might be tell Tales of simulation such
as a nursery universe or Zoo hypothesis
and quantin hypothesis see those
episodes or entries for more discussion
see also boltzman brain quarantine
hypothesis Zoo
hypothesis solution exacerbates the
firmy paradox
many solutions to the formy Paradox
proposed to explain why aliens might be
common but unseen tend to rely on a
technology or ability that if true would
in some way make the universe we see
even more paradoxical for instance
faster than light travel not only makes
colonization of your neighboring Stars
easier but it means aliens who
originated in all Galaxy 10 billion
light years from here just a million
years ago might have been able to reach
Earth by now alien phenomena being
explained this way is also common and
suggesting a UFO might not be a
spaceship but a time traveler or From
Another Dimension just opens the door to
wondering why we're not seeing more of
those getting visitors from the year 1
million ad and so on which tend to
require suggesting things like Prime
directives of non-interference or not
messing with time generally speaking
though any suggested solution to the
fory Paradox which makes space travel
easier or widens the range of that
travel in space or time or multiverses
only exacerbates the fundamental problem
that the universe is old and ancient and
seemingly full of planets that might
have produced intelligent life before
our planet even formed throw in worrying
about planets that won't form life for
another billion years but could travel
back in time to now and colonize the
universe or some bortman brain from some
reality unlike ours or us being some
simulation and things only seem more
implausible but even relatively mundane
Technologies like a Sci-Fi force field
or cloaking field on some UFO tend to
imply technologies that make space
colonization much easier so I tend to
discourage folks from casually
suggesting these without considering the
additional abilities and ramifications
of such technology see also boltzman
brain FTL faster than light travel prime
directive simulation
argument Stellar neighborhood the region
of the Galaxy you are in and the
condition of your own sun and solar
system are likely to be factors in the
formy Paradox but your local Stellar
neighborhood is likely to be a
significant filter binary systems are
likely have problems with life but many
stars while not binary may have
neighbors just light months away not
light years with other stars being mere
light days from the system center dense
and younger star collections are likely
be subject to manyi Giant Supernova ey
followed by a second wave of white dwarf
Supernova ey in binary systems although
St may be in nearly disorted
neighborhoods arising from pockets of
space with low metallicity and thus
having few rocky planets indeed a great
many stars are between galaxies and may
lack planets or have few of them and be
very far from any plausible colonization
option making Colonial scenarios like
pulation Theory more likely to apply
these and many other factors may make
certain Stellar neighborhoods H for Life
see also filter percolation Theory rare
Sun region of
Galaxy techno and bio signatures techno
signatures and bio signatures are terms
for Telltale Oort signs of the presence
of technology or biology this is a bpark
term but we often are refering to
astronomically visible examples such as
a spectrum of light off a planets
indicating a high concentration of free
oxygen which we assume is rare outside
of active biology releasing oxygen as a
byproduct of photosynthesis so too
carbon dioxide in higher quantities
might indicate a large industrial
presence or the night side of a planet
might give off more lights in the
visible spectrum then we might be able
to explain by natural causes one of our
key concepts for attempting to
distinguish between strange natural
phenomena and artificial constructs or
alien civilizations is our assumption
that often the presence of one possible
bio or technos cure will be accompanied
by other ones on closer scrutiny one is
likely be most easily visible
potentially by orders of magnitude but
by examining the origin of that
signature we should expect to see some
additional ones and now that we have
discovered tens of thousands of
exoplanets with more being found every
day it may be we will soon start seeing
possible s shows of Life see also loud
aliens technological singularity
technological singularity is a broad
concept we discussed in multiple
dedicated episodes but in the cont text
of the firy Paradox it is usually the
assumption that some AI or
post-biological life will almost
inevitably emerge in the same period as
a civilization is firstc exploring space
thus could wipe out virtually all alien
intelligent races before they colonize
the Galaxy and us too as such it is
treated as a late filter to the formy
Paradox however it only operates that
way in context where that hyper Advanced
mind either rapidly shuts down after
killing everyone off never desires to
leave its home world or figures out how
to migrate to a better universe or
reality as such most of these variations
would seem to just replace Homo sapiens
with AI or transhumans much as we are
thought to have replaced earlier
iterations of humanity either
substituting ourselves or mixing with
them in any event the fory Paradox would
be unaffected by this option
specifically as it simply follows under
one of our other Solutions dealing with
high intelligence not being inclined to
Galactic colonization or imploding
somehow see also Ascension boltzman
brain dark force Theory inevitable
intelligence implosions late filter
miniaturization nihilism or enwei Rim
migration technological time bombs
technological time bombs also sometimes
called Honeypot Technologies are a type
of late filter discussed in more detail
in our technological time bombs episode
but cover those techn ologies which are
so attractive to use and inevitable to
discover that we can assume virtually
every civilization figures them out and
tries them which contain some sort of
risk common examples suggested are
fossil fuels atomic energy or weapons
computers and AI entire Fields like
particle physics or psychology and
neurology and anything which might be
viewed as dangerous to continued
survival which I've even seen include
medicine on the grounds allows
overpopulation or birth control on the
ground it causes population drop off
though usually what we mean is something
that seems safe and that once you begin
using it is either so addictive you
ignore the dangers or which never shows
any signs of it till the last minute see
that episode for more examples but as
filters go this could range from
something that about half of
civilizations discover and kill
themselves on to some technology so
Insidious and safe seeming that merely
using at one time guarantees
obliteration and thus would be a great
filter of the form Paradox late filal
proponents tend to assume that is not
that a single technological Time Bomb
gets us but that several each with these
nods of taking us out contribute to a
stronger filter and we refer to this as
a technological mind field see also
great filter inevitable intelligence
implosions late filter technological
singularity tectonic activity needed o
has a great deal of tectonic activity
and we do not know how common that is
and what causes it though we assume our
size and the presence of our moon are
big factors without it not only might a
planet gets saturated in free oxygen
very quickly after life forms but many
critical geological and hydrological
Cycles might fail to function this could
result in Far More desert planets or PLS
entirely covered in oceans than we would
expect especially given that a mountain
sticking up through an ocean experiences
a lot of erosive force from sea and sky
this activity can potentially th Planet
out that is turned into a snowball Earth
which we expect is a common event and
indeed may have happened to Earth
repeatedly by covering the surface in
dark and Sun absorptive Ash and provides
the critical deep sea thov vents that
are the current favorite candidate for
abiogenesis and the origin of Life on
this planet it also opens the door to
life emerging inside large tightly
racked icy moons of gas giants such as
Europa this may also represent a time
limit on Longo live stalls as the
tectonic activity Planet should decrease
over time and may leave a short window
in which life arising on it is probable
alternatively too much tectonic activity
might render a planet uninhabitable or
prevent anyone ever forming cities and
civilization for this reason it is
considered a strong filter candidate of
the rare earth variety see also filter
large Moon needed Rare
Earth they are talking but we can't hear
them this is the general category for
formy Paradox solutions that assume they
are actively talking and we just can't
make it out reasons include that they
are too far away that the signal gets
lost in the noise that they don't use
light to communicate or that we can't
log into their Network both of which
have their own entries but the idea that
signals can be lost in the noise while
valid in the sense of trying to find a
duplicate Earth or listen to their
interplanetary chadow tends to get
overextended I often hear folks say no
radio signal could be heard more than
100 years away or maybe 1,000 and what
this actually means is that we using our
present Tech would have a problem
hearing the routine radio traffic of our
own current planet or a duplicate more
than that distance away the notion that
radio signals or laser com beams built
by Advanced Civilizations for the
explicit purpose of talking to
civilizations like ours and could not be
heard far away is absurd as far off as
we can see the light of a star or due
radio astronomy someone could
communicate to us it simply requires
more power and lower amplitude and for
an intuitively simple if over-the-top
case some civilization could build a big
solar shade or mirror near their sun and
flicker it on and off to significantly
alter that star's brightness in a
repeating pattern of binary digits of pi
or perfect squares and that would be
visible Galaxy's away and could be
accomplished by nothing more complex
than a very dumb clanking
self-replicator and not one drop of new
science it would also not be very hard
to send Focus beams or lasers with
greetings to any Planet you could see
bio on
astronomically for this reason the idea
that distance is a solution to the fory
Paradox only holds if we are talking
about civilizations that are talking but
not interested in talking to us and this
bumps heavily into non-exclusivity in
any setup where Interstellar travel and
colonization is viable or Kev scale
civilizations are see also so they don't
use light to communicate they don't want
to talk to us we haven't logged into the
network
yet they don't use light to communicate
SEI the search for extraterrestrial
intelligence has tended to focus on
listening for radio waves or other
electromagnetic radiation that might
contain alien communication signals and
a common concern raised with this is
that aliens might have some better
method of communicating such as a fast
and light technique using some advanced
technology we are not priv to or even
the communication might be
point-to-point laser beams that are so
highly compressed they look like noise
this in and of itself would seem like a
decent explanation why we don't hear
their are normal Communications but to
be a good formy perx solution It
generally requires an assumption that
any alien race simply assumes you will
figure this technology out fairly
quickly especially in Galactic timelines
so that shouting across the Galaxy in
radio is seen as a waste of time as a
civilization might spend many Millennia
in stone or on ages low on radio for a
century or two then come across
hyperwave transmitters and be able to
instantly talk to everybody those extra
couple centuries might not seem like
they're worth much effort especially
since it's a period where civilization
is likely gotten much better at
recording its own history so little
understanding of them is likely to be
lost by this delay all of their new
events Al and larning are going to be
digitally recorded and backed up however
this has three major problems first it
does require that there is some
significantly better form of
communication available than radio and
that is at odds with known physics this
isn't a compelling problem for many who
assume FTL exists of course second it
assumes civilizations whing to make
contact are not worried about
civilizations going extinct where they
have radio and probably also have
weapons of mass destruction and
computers that might spawn AI this one
doesn't bug me because I have never
found the idea that we blow ourselves up
and go extinct very very likely and if
AI is very likely to replace Biologicals
then odds are good aliens out in the
Galaxy don't consider that a big deal
and may often be alien AI themselves the
third reason though is more compelling
as it's assuming a civilization wouldn't
just keep a beacon running in normal
radio pointed at planets that had
complex life a beam Transmission in
Whatever frequency could be maintained
on a star about as wide as its habitable
zone for a rather trivial cost in energy
given the scope of even fairly modest
Advanced civilizations and that signal
might simply contain a Hello message
Rosetta Stone and blueprints for a
communication device same if you have
FTL communication it only exacerbates
the issue of why you're not sending out
Colony ships or at least regular flyby
probes or monitors of any interesting
system any single CF 2 civilization
should find it trivial to maintain such
coverage either they were sending a 10
ton probe to 100 billion different
candidate star systems and a new one
every Millennia see also FTL faster than
light travel kardashev scale
non-exclusivity they are talking but we
can't hear them steady we haven't logged
into the network
yet they don't want to talk to us the
idea that aliens don't want to talk to
us generally relies on one of two lines
of reasoning one is that they have some
rule against it such as the Star Trek
prime directive which has its own entry
and the others they don't find us too
useful or appealing maybe they find us
mundane and boring maybe they actively
loathe all aliens but talking to us
doesn't seem useful this has a lot of
problems the forc being
non-exclusivity some aliens are bound to
want to chat with us and if Earth is
boring well I've heard my own home state
of Ohio call that a lot and Kansas is
almost legendary for being a boring
Backwater and yet both enjoy large
tourism trades they may think of us as
little more than animals or Be Giants in
the playground with us mere insects be
stepped on and yet plenty of people find
animals and insects interesting and
certainly would talk to them if they
could usefully reply so this one always
strikes me as implausible because if
life is so common all pale blue dot is
boring then it would also imply life was
so common there would be tons of wards
nearby who had a small minority of
academics or amateurs with weirdo
eclectic taste who found us interesting
see also Earth and humans are boring
non-exclusivity prime
directive they hide from everyone the
idea that secrecy can keep a planet safe
from hostile invadors is a popular one
and key to many formy Paradox Solutions
but as we explored in our episode hidden
aliens our current understanding of
physics and our own history push back
strongly on this as a useful strategy
hiding your planet and not expanding to
other WS is most likely to result in
someone expanding and coming across it
anyway eventually and that Invader now
has the resources of a million solar
systems behind them to handle any
conflict stealth is very hard in space
and while Technologies might exist to
hide them from us they should most
desire to hide from a more advanced
civilization that could be a real threat
who is likely to have the same
technology and know how to defeat it any
given stealth technology would rely on
ensuring no one in your species could
wreck it with a broadcast or accident
and still only protects you from anyone
not yet existing when you develop this
technology after all if your
civilization wants to hide from an older
bigger and more advanced civilization
they would need to have hidden backwards
in time before they sent out their forc
loud radio signals as that other
civilization has probably long since
detected their planets primitive bio
sanur and sent probes or torn telescopes
on it nonetheless there may be certain
Technologies like shunting your planet
into a pocket universe or empty section
of a mulivor which would hide you in a
way that could not be followed or which
no one would be motivated to search for
see also time travel they hide from
us they hide from us while the rule that
there is no stealth in space seems to
make hideing your civilization rather
futile especially from older and bigger
civilizations that would have seen you
before you tried hiding there is the
possibility that you simply try to hide
from Humanity either us specifically or
under some general prime directive of
not wanting to interfere in other
civilizations this does not function
under the Dyson dilemma which would
leave alien civilizations blatantly
visible to all modern Civilization now
even if they had left a globe of a few
hundred light years of free stars around
us as a gift for our eventual entrance
into the Galaxy such a gift of nearly a
million stars is still plausible in a
galaxy of nearly a trillion of them but
less so if you're trying to hide CF 3
civilizations from many species which is
up to 20th century technology and the
fory Paradox is about our inability to
see these folks not our ancestors the
issue here is that it is hard to imagine
any civilization deciding that giving us
another Century of isolation was worth
leaving an entire region of the universe
empty instead of a tiny corner of one
Galaxy but of course this assumes what
we are looking at is genuine one of our
probes might bump into a big TV screen
one day or maybe everything that leaves
ccino space gets quietly grabbed by
aliens and its feed hijacked for
simulation or the aliens and real
Universe we're from might be so Grand
that tasas in our own private Universe
was considered no more effort or
generosity than dumping a petri dish
bacterial culture in its own private
pond scale is always relative and they
may have universes in abundance to give
away or we may not even have a Ward and
live inside a virtual reality laboratory
experiment see our episode the galactic
laboratory for more discussion of that
see also kardashev scale simulation
argument quarantine hypothesis Zoo
hypothesis they hide here on Earth
aliens Among Us is a common belief and
one many feel there is strong evidence
for and while I do not share their
opinion it is still possible to
contemplate that scenario and ask what
might be implied about their goals
motives or behaviors based on those
traits apparently exhibited in our
current understanding of the universe
indeed this is the primary Avenue used
for discussion in our alien civilization
series and explored in detail in our
secret aliens and Cort Aliens episodes
what is usually implied is that the
aliens have some reason for being here
anthropology collecting primitive relics
or tinkering with Society to make an
easier transition into their empire any
of these may be true but require us to
first and foremost ask On Any Given
theory if there is an easier way way to
achieve their goal and to assume they
have an overwhelming advantage in
technology and arms to us though not
necessarily to other actors on the local
Galactic stage who may object to their
behavior many scenarios play out
different with multiple players not just
them versus us for instance an
anthropologist has an obvious motive for
living covertly with us but could remote
control an Android or be implanted into
one or send tiny drones concealed as
birds or even insects to watch us all
from orbit and should have no need to do
this at this point as our core makeup
should be no different than a few
centuries ago or longer and simply
watching TV and keeping a link into our
internet should allow good monitoring
aliens might abduct us for medical
reasons but should have been able to
abduct a library more easily and could
get a ton of our DNA off those books or
letters or coins and of any machine
there should not be many reasons why
their resarch requires are live human
and and given they want to be secret and
apparently get cotted enough for many
folks to believe they do abductions they
should be resolving that approach for
the minimum times that's needed in favor
of sneaking bodies out of graves or
sneaking a brain scanner or compact
alien MRI into someone's bedroom
ultimately this area can never be ruled
out as there are clearly motivations to
come to Earth and hide from us but many
lack consistency or grow needlessly
complex so it is important to not only
apply a rzor but to Simply ask if you
can think of a less convoluted way to
achieve the apparent alien goal or one
with less chance of exposure because
they are intelligent and so they
probably could too see also Cosmic
collectors they hide from
us tidal locking all moon like most
moons has slowly had its rotational
energy bled off so it keeps the same
side pointed at its planet and we
believe the same thing can happened to
stars and is more likely the closest or
you all as a result planets around
dimore Stars which is the super majority
of them need to be closer to their Sun
for them to be in the habitable zone and
thus may be tily locked showing one side
to that star for an eternal day and the
other In Perpetual Darkness there's a
good deal of uncertainty how often this
occurs and around what stars and if such
plants might be hospitable to life
something we explored more in colonizing
red dwarfs for further explanation of
how tital loocking of course see your
episode on tidal locking note that in
general tidal forces are likely be very
important to the habitability of any
planet or Moon see also filter
Goldilocks zone Rare Earth rare
Sun time elapse argument astronomy is
history the further away we look the
further back in time we look and this
gives us a useful tactic for examining
strange astronomical phenomena and
asking if they are natur natural or not
this is where the time elapse argument
of the for Paradox or t comes in that
any e phenomena suspected of being an
artificial construct should grow rarer
the further away or back in time we look
if it is not then it is probably natural
and craar are an example of that we
wondered if they might be alien signals
originally indeed realizing they were
brighter objects than not just stars but
entire galaxies did not make us think
they had to be natural either we just
wondered if they might be megadon
kardashev 3 civilizations but as we
mapped them out and checked the distance
over the decades we found it was very
rare to find any within a couple billion
light years and that they were most
common about 10 billion light years away
or 10 billion years ago and yet it would
seem very implausible that enormous K3
civilizations will poppy up all over the
universe when it was younger than Earth
was when the first brain evolved here
same it would be implausible that these
became rarer over time and if you're
thinking maybe some civilizations
evolved faster than us that would work
but we have quazar detected that are
fully 13 billion years old probably
older than any rocky planet we can use
this in other cases like ring galaxies
that people thought might indicate a
wave of chic thrusters pushing out to
indicate a civilization engaging in re
migration but it falls apart under the
lens of te any artificial phenomena
should appear more common as we move
forward in time and more civilization
develop and grow if it isn't it probably
isn't a sign of an artificial phenomena
and if it is the reverse shrinking with
time it is even more likely it is
natural see also Rim migration time
travel time travel time travel matters
to the form Paradox in two major ways
first off virtually any form of fast and
light travel tends to imply or even
require time travel function if it does
Raising Paradox issues with the galactic
civilizations having FTL and second that
much like FTL or
multiorbital
if it works we have to worry not just
about order civilizations visiting us
but our own
descendants as we looked at in our
episode Time Wars you would expect to
see people invading from the end of the
universe back to the beginning of time
somewhat amusingly as we saw in that
episode The sheer number of people at
Mass moving from a billion timelines
back to some earlier root period could
cause a localized black hole or even big
bang in certain conditions and models
see also FTL faster than light travel
inter Universe migration Multiverse and
alternate reality aliens solution
exacerbates the firmy
Paradox type of star while falling under
the general heading of the Ros Sun great
filter the type of Star a planet is is
around deserve special note as it
represents such a large category of
uncertainty on the one hand Stars
shorter live than our own son would not
seem great candidates for the formy
Paradox especially as stars grow
brighter with time moving habitable
zones and shorter lived stars do this
faster alternatively longer lived Stars
would seem to offer stable habitable
zones for extended periods but many
Mayas tital locking to their habitable
planets rendering one side eternally lit
and the other dark though this is now
disputed too stars with too much solar
variability might roast planets
periodically while freezing them in
between or strip off atmospheres with
regular and Powerful solar flares and
coronal mass ejections and this doesn't
even contemplate strange stars like
binaries super Giants Brown dwarfs
Stellar remnants variable stars and more
none of which should be ruled out for
the presence of Life indeed all of which
are also plausible for colonization by
technological species not our more
classical notion that only rare or
analogues around yellow Suns would be
good homes for Humanity an assumption
which is critical to Solutions such as
the Aurora effect or pulation Theory see
also Aurora effect percolation Theory
rare
Sun Universe 2 young the idea that the
universe is too young yet for life to
exist is generally predicated on the
notion that it takes many cycles of star
birth and death for heavier elements
critical to life and rocky planets to
reach much abundance and distribution so
too the current form of galaxies for
instance is mostly larger ones like ours
composed of many smaller galaxies that
have been forming and being swallowed
and as such we will soon merge with
Andromeda and a few others to form a
single big Galaxy surrounded by The
Emptiness of Hubble expansion most other
galaxies are in the same process which
can cause vast sterilization events and
planetary ejections for the next 10 to
20 trillion years a thousand times the
age of our universe Stars will be common
and only for another several billion
will there be much chaos of Galactic
mordors so the universe is likely to be
far more hospitable to life emerging
then and many have been far harsher on
life before then the issue here is that
so long as loud aliens is the norm
especially gravy aliens we would expect
that galaxies would be claimed not by
the thousands of intelligent species
that might arise in a more hospitable
later universe but rather by the first
one that managed to avoid dying in that
hore Oro Universe with fewer rocky
planets and more vicious Galactic
conditions and lived long enough to
build a ship we might be such an example
see also grabby aliens loud
aliens virtual reality Utopia a common
counterargument to us colonizing space
is that we might instead colonize
virtual Wars places likely be far
stranger or more Paradise likee than
habitats we might build or WS we might
find in Terror form and made quicker too
this is not a good formy Paradox
solution though because even ignoring
that many people would probably skip on
this path under non-exclusivity then AI
would still let you do things in reality
by Advanced automation any level of AI
able to produce virtual realities the
overwhelming majority of people would
find better than reality is also
sufficient to program van noyman probes
to go out and colonize the Galaxy or
grab resources to bring home to build
more and grander computers for
simulating reality for more people and
greater quality in the end it's no
harder to program a robot to make copies
of itself and grab rocks than is to
program a convincing NPC for a game and
probably easier so before you reach an
addictive level of virtual Utopia
everyone would go into you should have
been able to send out the drones to grab
a vast supply of material and fuel see
also non-exclusivity resource
hoarding vulnerable World
hypothesis some technologies allow a
small group or individual to be
extremely lethal and there is a concern
that in the future it would be
impossible for us to limit access to
destructive weapons as an example A Star
Trek replicator might be used to make
doomsday devices or a 3D printer and if
only one a million people would do that
several thousand such lunatics could
wreck Civilization by each setting off a
multi Megaton nuke or unleashing greay
goo indeed the fear of options like this
might drive the sort of migration we
contemplated in our H at shoplifter
hypothesis where everyone runs for the
proverbial Hills of Intergalactic space
as small groups or individuals simply
because they consider it impossible to
safely live in any civilization of size
for any real length of time before it
would implode or turn into a police
state we do not know what sort of
Technologies are on the horizon though
both for making such doomsday devices
and protecting against them and a point
I often like to make on the point of
crazed Madmen in the future is that we
don't just have the physical sciences to
advance we also have medicine and
psychology which might make detecting
lunatics early and treating them so easy
and effective that this sort of scenario
is not a concern this varies slightly
from technological time bombs nihilism
or on Wei or inevitable intelligence
implosions in that the assumption is the
civilization is healthy enough overall
and the technology is inevitably
destructive just that the bad eggs exist
in such civilizations it might only take
one bad egg in a billion to lay everyone
low see also hermit shoplifter
hypothesis nihilism or onwe inevitable
intelligence implosions technological
time
bombs we are aliens one no for
explaining why aliens aren't constantly
inven us is that they already did and
humanity is some abandoned Colony or
second evolution of their species this
one is incredibly popular in science
fiction as it gives us an excuse why all
the aliens look like somebody glued a
piece of rubber to a human head or
painted them with the other being that
the humanoid form is so handy that
Evolution converges toward it a lot in
spite of it not even doing so on Earth
not many bipeds have separately evolved
here and the condition are the same
which they would not be on some alien
planet we could suppose aliens came here
thousands of years ago and inspired all
mythologies also a popular sci-fi topic
but it is hard to match all fossil
records to the idea of aliens coming in
and breeding with us which Beyond being
a rather bizarre and disturbing thing to
do also has a lot of technical issues Al
beit as we've discussed in other
episodes with enough technology you can
crossbreed anything half man half turtle
walking human tree or weird alien love
child with cool elf ears like spark or
maybe tentacles this also need not
necessarily be literal but more
psychological in opposition to the idea
that aliens are alien and instead that
aliens have a lot of the same
motivations and behavior as we do but
when it is more literal you begin to
need a fair number of handwaves to make
it work the biggest of which is what has
happened to them since then hand waves
isn't necessarily run though in a
scenario like the Aurora effect where
colonies are rare and not very
successful and Interstellar travel is
never very quick or practical you could
easily have colonies that fell to techno
primitivism and lost their history but
to account for a fossil record like ours
you either need to back it up to the
beginning of Life an alien Scout landed
here 3 billion years ago and their suit
leaked microbes on the planet for
instance or you need to find a plausible
injection Point like arguing that we are
assuming a gap in that fossil record has
a missing link but it does not that's
when alien life showed up our fossil
record gets better every day but it's
still very spotty and as we discussed in
the Salan hypothesis technological
remains of a colony might be utterly
gone after a million years or so one
other option is that the aliens in
question are very casual about biof
foring so they just slide right into the
existing ecosystem and maybe even hijack
existing bodies of in case some clever
primate with useful hands those are big
stretches but maybe possible especially
if space travel is really difficult and
civilizations rarely last long see this
weekend's upcoming episode human aliens
for a deeper dive on this topic both if
we might be aliens and convergence shape
Evolution see also aliens used to visit
Earth Ancient Aliens Aurora
effect we haven't logged in into the
network yet a subcategory of the
concepts that aliens might not use light
or video to communicate or that they are
talking but we can't hear them is that
there's a galaxy-wide network or
Internet equivalent or even universe or
Multiverse wide one and that we don't
have the technology or passcode for it
in a non-fl context this could also be a
decryption key or compression algorithm
for mundane radio traffic though the
internet is usually a FTL method this
has the same problem other Solutions of
this category have of non-exclusivity in
that unless card scale civilizations are
very rare there is no reason to expect
every civilization feels it as wasteful
to run a beacon with a Hello and
construction diagram to primitive
planets however this does leave some
options for communication only being
possible by some exotic method in cases
where someone might be transmitting from
some other reality or Dimension see also
faster than light travel kardashev scale
non-exclusivity they are talking but we
can't hear them they don't use light to
communicate
set Zoo
hypothesis Zoo hypothesis is an
appropriate last entry as it is an
example of a firy paradox solution that
cannot be disproven and has a large
number of motivations and reasons why
you might do it this is the basic notion
that the universe as we see it around us
is either concealed or or false it might
be that you're in a simulation or that
your W is Eng globed in a very large
television and every deep space probe we
sent out got grabbed and hijacked to
send false signals back or even that
we've been subtly drugged or tricked to
ignore them or the universe with them is
easily visible but they've adulterated
all science and evidence so that
everybody just assumes the universe is
empty because all our telescopes and
astronomers are really alien possessed
there is an endless list of options
options but more importantly many
plausible motives for doing it
everything from a lab experiment to an
amusement or a way to raise and protect
civilizations see our episode The fory
Paradox Zoo hypothesis for details see
also quarantine hypothesis simulation
argument and that will wrap up our
entries given how long this episode
already is I'll keep our inotes it's
fairly short but for those curious I
decided to redo this episode last year
but I knew it was going to be a behemoth
to write and produce roughly parallel to
an entire month of work while still
being just one of Eight Episodes this
month including our nebula exclusive
Ultra relativistic spaceships I also
wanted to wait till after the surgery
and speech therapy I had earlier this
year had gotten rid of my speech
impediment and while I gather it's very
diminished I think it's still present
and given the that this outro segment
was recorded later than the rest of the
episode it might be more noticeable here
in any event as always we will run our
credits right after the schedule of
upcoming episodes but I want to take a
moment to thank all the folks over the
years who discussed the fory Paradox
with me even before this show and helped
me brainstorm or polish Challenge and
critique our discussions of the topic
that's at least many hundreds of people
including a lot of our audience and for
all of you who have thank you and I hope
you'll continue doing so in our YouTube
comments or on our social media
platforms and for everyone who has made
it through over 3 hours of me discussing
this thank you for tuning in this week
we're still not done for the week though
as we have our sci-fi Sunday episode on
human alien hybrids or the idea that we
might have originated from another
planet coming up this weekend followed
by a look at how we can build domes on
Ms and if we should compared to
underground habitats and we will see the
construction options and way the pros
and cons next Thursday November 16th
2023 then we'll examine the astronomy of
double planets where the big object in
the sky isn't a moon but a much larger
and Bluer and Greener planet and ask if
life might be able to arise on such ws
and M great between them then our
monthly live stream Q&A is cancelled
this month and indeed next month will be
our last live stream for the foreseeable
future but we will still be having a
short episode that day on Space hygiene
our most recent winning pool topic
before closing the month out on November
30th with agre worlds and a discussion
of how you could F an entire planet if
you'd like to get alerts when those and
other episodes come out make sure to hit
the like subscribe and notification
buttons you can also help support the
show on patreon and if you want to
donate and help in other ways you can
see those options by visiting our
website Isaac author. net you can also
catch all of sfi's episodes early and
adree on all streaming service nebula
along with hours of bonus content at go.
nea.org
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
