the livestream will begin started in
just a moment so it's a great time
stocking questions into the chat window
for all moderators true of you and copy
over to me so we can jump right into the
Q&A if we don't have a chance to get
your questions today feel free to leave
them in the comment section on the video
you know try to get them a while after
the show all visit evolve social media
sites like Reddit and Facebook to
continue discussion with me or the other
audience members and let's get started
good afternoon everybody and welcome to
our monthly live stream well you saw the
question just a moment please make sure
to relay those into the chat window so
our mods can go ahead and pick them out
I gather one was having a little bit of
trouble logging in so I'm gonna have to
grab him straight out the screen for
beds we do have one I notice in the chat
as we were getting started and that was
about the Dyson swarms and whether or
not they'd always look the same inside a
fusion economy when you do with a Dyson
swarm or a Dyson Sphere or your globey
and tile stall so that we were expect
all the visual idle most visual light to
disappear and be a place with infrared
light that was expended as waste heat
it's gotta expended his waste heat
though as the infrared it could be a
high off frequency or lower frequency
than what we expect from earth but then
infrareds gotta come out otherwise you
cook the people inside that's they'd
heat up very very quickly the Sun is on
average a couple million degrees or more
and the mass of it is like 500 times
that of the entire solar system so if
wasn't dispensing any infrared
everything would cook in short order but
the question then becomes if you've got
something like fusion power or if you've
got something like you know a black hole
that you're using as a power source
instead of stars would you still expect
that kind of Dyson Dyson dilemma
effective where they'd spread out and
eat up every stall so you couldn't see
the night sky or where you just be able
to see one lone Dyson and the thing is
um if you've got that thing sitting
they'll give you a flight you'll
probably take advantage of it because
it's free power that's going to use one
way or another which could also by means
with stall lifting go ahead and move
that into into your fusion reactors let
the gas out the stall and and move it to
your fusion reactors or dump it into a
black hole and get better power
efficiency and so the thing is would you
still see that going around installers
and you still expected in Globen oh that
stall to pull the meadow outfits and if
you can't pull the matter off it you
still globin for the free power so
doesn't gonna waste but for those actual
artificial power sources like a fusion
economy or a black hole economy whether
or not you are tightening up or
spreading out the thing is the bigger
you get your your density kind of has to
fall off with the inverse power of the
radius of your swarm and so you are
going to end up still with the same
effect though because you're falling off
to get yourself as close together as you
can without overheating and that results
as valence could look like a big
spherical glob anyway and at that same
frequency range it might be big or small
on terms in that power output then a
star would be but then stalls very very
wildly and if you're on the very heavy
into that a very very large civilization
like that that's much bigger than a
single star would about putting their
giant that's gonna be very hard to miss
because that's a gigantic infrared blob
so basically one way or another you end
up with that that Dyson effect and we
have for two which is not so much about
the Dyson Swan itself about the waste
heat of a very low civilization that's
try to keep self fairly compact now it's
always possible they might spread out
really thin but then the question is why
you know when you get to about the size
of a Dyson swarm that a little bigger
and again the more energy you've got
more spread out you have to be to
invoice for the actual power your
pussying out so if you're bigger than a
store in terms your power output you
have to be much much bigger as you're in
Globe meant you can pack everybody in
very very types gonna pack them in as
tight as you give her the waste heat and
you can pack them in loose too but you
already so spread out I mean these
things have a density of considerably
less than anything we expect on earth
that you wouldn't really see people wide
spread out that much for the sake of
privacy you know whether it's a hundred
kilometres between you in the next
station or a million that's a lot of
empty space and so essentially you're
always gonna expect to see that packing
there might be some people spread out
but not so much that Dean's house
civilization would because they want
that minimum single eye that minimum
travel time that minimum travel energy
so you would be packed together and
still with the exact same effect okay we
have a question from jasmine
he asks have you ever read I have
I have a mouth but I must scream I think
that I have no mouth but I'm a scream
that's by Holden Ellison one of his
famous short stories and I don't live
with that one of our books of the month
or not it's a short story so I know how
to learn his book of the month yes it's
one of my favorites actually Halle
Nelson's worth a few famous sci-fi items
were actually met way back around 2000
so I saw him at the library give me a
talk with my mom who's a big sci-fi fan
- and he was supposed to be talking
about Ray Bradbury's book Fahrenheit 451
he's from the entire time talking about
other things he and it's glued to our
seats for three hours that man is just a
well it was just a phenomenal taco and
he's from my area in Ohio so but yes I
have a that book and I recommend to
everybody else the short story I have no
mouth but I'm a scream event horizon
says greetings four main question do you
play COPO space program by chance I know
of it but I don't actually play it
myself I'm always way behind on video
games or simulators and it's I've seen
the product of it it looks pretty
awesome but I just hadn't had the time
to really get into it too much myself I
know it's very popular with our the
audience oh ok let me pop another
question real quick
Briony bones asked why doesn't every
animal end up evolving into a human hmm
well that's actually there's a lot of
questions don't unpack in that one you
know we're looking at science fiction
there's often the idea that our aliens
will look humanoid and that of course
has nothing to do with expectation that
has to do with makeup budgets you know
it's hard to put together new alien
species from like Star Trek every week
so you're very simple things to make
them look clearly non-human so you know
they're an alien but hmm as two
congruent evolution the human form is a
pretty impressive one for while purposes
you know it's very well designed to to
allow us to dissipate heat very quickly
and we do tend to think that's one of
the reasons why we have the bigger plane
in the first place via better heat
dissipation will got that the capacity
is sweat for instance worried
persistence but oh it's called one of
those types of things can just chase
after us pray a lot but
there's no real reason why they would
evolve switch to a human form if that's
the question if on the other hand the
question is why does everything evolved
have the same intelligence as a human
we're the first ones on the scene and
whichever ones first on the scene kind
of changes the landscape you know we
don't know that we didn't wait another
million or ten million years gonna have
had intelligent raccoons or dolphins or
things like that that what the human
level but we also don't know that that
necessarily is the one that you know
that we don't know that high
intelligence something evolution would
always aim for you know most things on
earth are much more evolved in humans
strange that sounds and are not
intelligent and so really my evolved if
we were assuming that each generation
brings greater complexity so that the
most evolved thing or grade or grade or
tuning to one's environment and again so
expensive what do you mean by evolution
having in core you know what's most of
all because of course evolution doesn't
have goals I think even moment ago I was
saying we're designed right that's if
we're assuming that evolution random
evolution towards things has no signal
in gold then you'd have to say the only
legitimate way to measure how well
something is but how many generations
have had since abiogenesis accord so
what would be most evolved what won't be
humans of all the species on this planet
the one that has least generations back
in terms of animals laced would
presumably be humans but very long
lifetimes and very long rates between
when we breed we take like ten to twenty
years where you even talking in that
zone um obviously longer these days but
even fairly antique human advanced
antique ancient humans tend to have
pretty long growth periods too and so we
have simple longest generations
obviously there's certain trees or
things like that that lasts longer
whereas some bacteria that reproduces
every 12 hours has you know billions of
generations more than us to say it's
more evolved than that so if that's the
case you can't really say that somebody
has had more generations to evolve is is
is less evolved in us and so you can't
say that they would necessarily aim
towards intelligence is a natural track
so again there's a temptation assume
that evolution leads to intelligence and
higher intelligence but a lot of the
biologists are nervous oh that's not
very likely
to be the case and that's obviously very
important for for me paradox but we
really don't know yet hmm let's see
libertarian lemonis rants asks are you
familiar with the German science fiction
series Perry Rhodan I've heard of it
that's about it I know some parts were
translated I'm afraid that's pretty much
all I do know is that it was a serious
Cold War series I thought was written by
Perry Rhodan but I guess it's called a
rodent I met that thing's a memory
that's about it
Thank You Nathan Lew so he is asking I
was wondering if you'd heard of a howl
if you had a Hall effect thruster in
orbits with an exhaust velocity about
the escape velocity of earth would the
exhaust escape a depending which
direction was being pointed if you've
got an exhaust velocity that exceeds
what the orbital velocity would be while
you're in orbit which of course lower
than when you're on the planet and it's
aimed you know away then yes it's going
to escape if on the other hand it's
aimed down toward the earth and no we're
not and of course things are usually
aimed at an angle as opposed to a
perfect one or not so generally speaking
if something is running with an exhaust
velocity that just has to be the same as
all its escape velocity it's probably
not going to escape but usually need to
be high or point you in the right
direction but yes you're it will escape
in for them in a lava would get ionized
and leave later on too as it just got
hit by sunlight pushed away it asdfghjkl
I'll give my keyboard for that one
middle keyboard ass so what do you think
would be a good way to clean debris out
of Earth's orbit to clean up and prevent
Kessler syndrome we discussed that a
little bit in I believe the was it space
channels episode or in the overall
infrastructure episode Kessler syndrome
is a concern we have that if you have
debris or if you have things or be in
space if you get debris it can go hit
something else and generate more debris
and cause more things to go out and get
more debris and catching you react until
you have an everything in orbit just
blasted into smithereens and kind of cut
you off in space travel how will you go
about cleaning that up
if you all do with it in orbit in little
bits to prevent a cascade effect there's
a number of options available you on the
table but if you try to do it ground
probably your best way to do that was
what we call a lethal broom and or a
laser a blade of room what you're doing
then is heating so there's laser you're
not vaporizing and you could vaporize a
piece of debris and you can shoot a
laser up from from the ground we I think
we have a one at White Sands that's been
our prototype for that but trying to
vaporize the entire object is going to
be much more difficult and much more
energy intensive what you're instead
doing is vaporizing just a little bit
off to one side of it you give a Lowe's
a pat and ablates aside and some of the
material goes spraying off as vapor and
of course that amounts to a rocket flame
and if you're hitting that right it's
going to fall down right Oh for escape
and of course it's even nicer we can do
some high orbit because you can ablate
the thing from the top is a wall so it
just blows down into the planet and
bones up on the way down but the laser
room is probably your best approach
let's see Valley Albu ass do you think
about gambling the future like space
poker or Sabac sabacc is from Star Wars
I don't know if it's actually in the
main cannon but it's the game that Han
Solo life supply was well with Lando
Calrissian and I don't think I've call
it electronic and change what they are
faces for that but future games we did
actually look that in the future of
sports a little bit that was more
interested in athletic activities as
opposed to like call games there are
lots of card games out there and I would
normally say yes you have tons ball and
that's probably the case you know the
longest civilizations around and the
bigger it gets the more games you'd
expected to collect but at the same time
you know when I was a kid they everybody
knew how to play at least to a cup of
card games and they know how to play
chess and checkers and that was because
those will pretty much do games and you
still get a lot of other games from that
you know that were popping up all those
board games like life or Candyland and a
lot of those 3m games like a choir for
instance but you know we have such an
increasing diversity of games available
to people that I'm actually wondering if
college would stay as the main game
nicely well cause there was a deck you
carry it around and so you could play it
anywhere and fit into something a size a
wallet or pocket now you have a
smartphone if it's your pocket so you
know I'm not sure that colors will
really stay as the mainstay game and the
future
and I don't think they're gonna go
anywhere anytime soon but there's so
many more other game options available
and there's so much more portability
that maybe there's a good chance things
like cards won't go out it's um let's
see
Mickey asked do you believe the humanity
were terraform Venus and Mars to be off
like plants with oceans and stable
atmospheres truthfully no I don't think
we probably will I mean maybe we would
we can if you've seen springtime on Mars
although episode went want Venus we
talked about how you could actually do
that but the thing is you know you can
do a or like apatite so much easier on
something like an eel soon or that I
often tend to wonder if you'd really go
to that much effort to telephone an
entire planet because it takes so long
and you had to have the entire
population or group that was involved in
that stay committed to that task for
centuries even while people living they
are all kind of getting used to it the
way it is and you might take them apart
for resources to build shell Ward's or
things like that but I wouldn't go so
far as to say I'd be surprised we could
happen but I tend to get as the less
likely scenario that a full blown
terraforming of Venus or Mars is I mean
full-blown tween the earth like plants
as opposed to pay or terraforming we you
know couple of molars and domes or do
classes on Venus attending full-blown
terraforming is less likely than not to
be the eventual fate of these places
even 6:09 asks have you ever read the
plan of voiced by a Kade to Whitney it's
a book about two-dimensional life and
technology no I've actually never heard
of it but I have heard of that arthur
akin to whitney what wonder that I
figure books a kid tune upset of nothing
he's a mathematician or statistician who
can can uh assume he's still alive at
this was a book I read in the mid to
late 80s and I would definitely say
picking that book up is so good so I'm
not Red Planet was because I'm not heard
of it but I'm tempted to now I would
definitely recommend that book to
observe nothing everyone though
Pedro half a man least ask greetings
from Giessen uh he's got a playlist
there for me well where were you
stationed I was actually stationed in
Giessen that's how
gisun Germany is a little bit north of
Frankfurt in Germany and about five
there and I was stationed on the base
they are that's just outside the town I
can't believe it
Strasser but geese ins rather famous for
having been the home place of Ludwig
I can't was forced in your highness
Ludwig maybe it was the Jericho leaf
maybe was leaving I hope I can't believe
I can't member that now anyway the
scientists who came with the idea of a
constrained minimum the idea that so if
you got a system that spent on many
variables whatever the one is that
you're most scarce on is kind of one
that's gonna control things but Giessen
I was stationed there from 2003 to 2007
- about 14 months in Iraq and I do love
the place I would definitely recommend
it for ever goes and visits I can't say
there's a major tourist things of note
there it's just very nice town so and I
would definitely double-check everything
I just said about Ludwig Orly big since
I'm sure I'm forgetting that MIT was
just leaving
whichever the case I'm sure if you
google up geese and I'm sure you'll find
that the university is named for him
thank you Robert free or how would
someone begin construction on a noni or
sand or you know that's the episode we
have coming up kind of in a is on this
this coin Thursday is life on boron or
so and or and we do talk a little bit
about how we go about getting the
initial funding for something like that
they are in terms of not the first one
but how people would do it in the future
of they become a major habitat kind of
thing um when we're making thousands or
millions of them how would we get all
funding for the first one is a very
tricky question you know and you
presumably point out at the L for the L
five points and I suspect you need only
nation that was very devoted to it and
had a ton of money like the US and and
was quite content to spend you know the
equivalent the entire military budget
for a decade putting thing up there oh
you need an international effort but the
critical thing there is that if you want
to realistically do a full-blown oneor
zone or even with the smaller models you
would do that after you either had neo
or that Royd mining or moon mining very
firmly in place so you could be sourcing
of raw materials out for that because
the trickiest thing about one of those
is it's just sourcing all that mass but
I would tend to think
like your last stage of early space
deployment you'd have other space
stations that routine like well like a
planner the the one that Brian Varsity
design that we often show here on the
channel that's much more modest or the
Gateway Space Station that's much more
modest and I think that would be
something you can conceivably build even
then I before an International Airport
not so much because one country couldn't
fund something like that there would be
pretty expensive anybody's budget well
because that Donna I tend to prefer
international space efforts would
possible again not necessary every
country but gets more more people their
skin in the game
and part of the problem I can have these
things is if you got a lot of
technologically developed countries or
all countries that are on earth for that
matter there are not really actively
participating in the space endeavour or
they you know they're not gonna feel as
invest into as OB else's and of course
as I said the additional source of
funding and personnel let's see how our
missions ask do you think there will be
religion in the far future do you that
religious part of any life forms besides
us you know religion is a vague term um
yeah it's sometimes easier to say
etiology if you try to list out the
characteristics of you know what is
religion you're going to find a bunch of
other things don't usually accepted as
religions that are not going to meet
that meet that trait list perfectly so
yeah that's kind of an impossible
question to ask
it's give an answer for because just
because the term can mean so many things
I on the other hand just talk about what
we what we tend to think of as religion
in the modern context just like the
saying the big four or five religions
now I'd be very surprised if they went
anyway uh in the in the next few
millennia at least you know I think that
well always want to be careful talking
on that subject a bit but I can't really
think of any reason why civilization
would abandon those in the short term
that doesn't already exist at the moment
so as to other alien species having them
I can't think any reason why they would
not you probably want to talk to
anthropologists about why those tend to
form up so much and that of course you
talk to a theologian or a psychologist
or philosophers why we tend to have them
still these days or while they are you
know
growing or not growing or so forth well
you were very large and divorce size
would you expect from when it was
interplanetary let alone a dose tell o
you I'd be very surprised there was any
ideology that was not a religion that
was not you know they are somewhere as a
war I'm just going to have so many sub
you know we only get more divorced with
time you know we've got much more
numerous I think we actually get divorce
so as a war and I think that's going to
be a trend that continues in the future
you need something that kind of pushes
for homogenate homogeneity to really
have something like that disappear and
I'm not really seeing he will push for
that and the base society would tend to
look like it's gonna be formed up in the
future but that's my guess is good
anybody else's let's see John Miller ass
as we go it's astrobiology and such what
do you think is the likelihood that life
could actually exist that uses some of
the other than carbon giving you the
eternal energy that would be required
you know I actually just got done
yesterday writing the draft script up
for the non carbon-based life episode
that was the poor Widow so I'm going to
punt on that question till that episode
so will quest for that as a watch and
find out laughs Oh Albert Jackson's and
I would Jack Anson ass if your story a
science YouTube channel how can you
obtain credibility if you don't have a
professional college or graduate degree
and he thought of that so I for the odd
question I suppose suddenly a hard
question um you know not I mean quite a
few the folks who have science shows
don't have a degree I do of course in
physics but I mean if you know your
material and you stick to what you know
I mean like well Joe Scott he covers
science quite a lot and often quite well
but he's degree yeah he was in marketing
he's not a science background for that
but he does his research on topics and
he doesn't try to over go you know to
areas down his you know you speak to an
area that you research properly
incredibly and and the same goes for me
it's why I will care for a lot about
biology episodes and you don't go
outside that when you're discussing it
and that's the key thing they are and
you make sure he knows if you make
mistake so that she can be wrong
Fraser Cain universe today one of our
great friends he does way more astronomy
than I do
I used to literally written a book on it
and yet I don't think he has degree in
physics or astronomy
Cody is was an undergrad when he's got
his stay on channel started on he knows
his geology quite well better than me so
you know it's just one of those things
well don't cover topics you don't know
obviously and that go you know you don't
have to have a degree in gardena ever
gone you know though isn't gonna hole
but as to credibility what do people
find credible degrees help but a degrees
way telling people that other folks have
you know that know the fiord have said
that you know it right that's pretty
much what degree is for it's a voucher
from other exports it says this person
knows this topic um and in the absence
of that you just have to you know walk
the walk is a war you if you if you know
your field if you know the future
discussing and you put Papa Bear foot
into researching it then credibility
will follow as people who have been
washed yet say oh yeah he's got that
bite so far you've only other hand
you're putting out trash and folks all
constantly making corrections to what
you do then you're not gonna get
credibility so the key to credibility of
course is to is to know your material so
that you're credible don't know the
answers the question very well though
one thing I would say about folks
starring channels and you know the whole
point of YouTube is to start a channel
if you have something you feel like
talking about but at least that's where
I used to think at this point and I know
a lot channel is like you trying to help
out a lot of new science shows you get
started and most they biggest oh they do
well and then they kind of class because
it takes a lot of time and effort to
really put in there and doesn't usually
grow as fast they like but then you have
a lot of folks who start up a channel on
in any topic doesn't really matter what
it is and you know they don't really
invest the energy into doing it right
because what they're really trying to do
at least from what it seems like to me
in many cases is gather following who
wants to listen what they have to say as
opposed to put out material of a
specific you know specific topic that
they feel people should know you know I
do not do an episode that original
episode of mega structuralist because I
was looking to gave me a big audience I
was supposed to gotten more than a
handful of use a little hand for your
views I did because that was an
interesting topic to me I knew some
folks who might benefit from the
material and I want just stop having to
repeat it all the time to them and put
in a nice or easier format and that's
one way time
obviously if there's nothing wrong with
enjoying your walk by the same time if
you're doing it because you just want
the attention is war that's not gonna
was all in a good Channel
you know do material or do it properly
do it with quality and do it on
something you know what you doing about
the enemy asks hello there I'm currently
studying material science bionics and
photonics here in Germany and I love it
but when do you think human scientists
will become obsolete you know I I don't
like his term human when discussing
things they're like what we say a
transhuman of artificial intelligence
context I think that whether we talk
about an AI or cyborg or any of those
things
I suspect more often than not anything
that actually has a personality is going
to think of herself as a human but the
very least going to think of myself as a
person it's got personality and so
usually we talk about futuristic context
we're not talking about something that's
very much a baseline human you know one
that would be alive right now for
instance I just finally use your safe
person it avoids a lot of the confusion
the you know they might have some AI or
robot or some uplifted cat or dog that
does the thinking and as to when people
will be redundant I have no idea I I
wouldn't Inc we'd ever be obsolete but
then again wouldn't you say Sony was
born four thousand years ago was pretty
obsolete they don't know the material
from nowadays the same basic fundamental
makeup as we have you know it's the
software more in the hard way that
matters in the hard way was probably
upgradeable if you want to stay relevant
on that field and you can't do it
otherwise cthulhu for target I asked
question our videos that don't win the
pause forever lastly Thor no they or not
when it comes like the ones we do here
or because we do pause on bunch of other
places we actually just got around to
doing one in our discourse over for the
first time recently and we serve and
done one automatic cuz I'm gonna figure
out how to do when I read it there's two
places though that we go to for
submissions of topics one is a one face
book on the pause for the science
futurism group and that is linked in the
episode description here for the live
stream every swattin or on an open poll
and Facebook's pull option allows us to
have people add there were an option
right into that pool and people can vote
on so just pop it up there and people
fill it out and then I look and see what
the usually I take the top one and make
that an episode and they'll take you
know five of the top one obscurity to
force five but maybe they'll be topic I
don't want to
do and put those over on YouTube is the
five options for the poor they are
YouTube only has between five options
and doesn't we have feedback for patreon
we do polls they are they let me have 25
topics they are so when we do when they
all have a thread and people can't add
them in so I'll have a thread that says
topic suggestions and will collect all
those up in that thread and I'll put
them into somebody looks like a title
format and we're going to pull on that
and we just run with the top one day oh
and maybe we take the top usually after
patreon ones and do like the top three
or four cuz the patreon crowd is usually
folks who have been watching Channel
five on today so they know what topics
have already done and they tend to know
which ones are easier for me to do so
but when it comes to the YouTube ones
here is a dead forever if it loses the
poll now I don't keep track of the ones
like for instance impact of
superconductors that one has come up as
somewhere between second to fifth place
on a ridiculous number of polls so we
probably won't be doing episode on that
at some point but no it's not a dead top
if it loses the poll but it's questions
sometimes I'll do them just cuz I really
wanna do that episode even came in like
fifth place but usually it's just put it
back up on the pole and people might
change the Miami motion and then lower
data but let's see we take another
couple questions for you held to the
suti that's the break white weasel gamey
asks given the relatively complicated
nature and the issue of needing dense
energy sauce will hand handheld laser
guns always be a thing a science fiction
probably yes you it's it's thing is the
laser guns always he is like blowing a
hole through somebody and the thing is
that's very energy wasteful as means of
damaging someone kinetic energy your
typical bullet has a couple thousand
channels of joules of energy into it by
a couple of thousand joules you know a
sword or an axe to us might have more
than that it's not as accurate a couple
of thousand joules of energy would you
know heat up a large cup of water to
boiling point it's not exactly a small
sorry a couple thousand joules of energy
would not even heat up a cup of bottle
they'll be like Basel degree or two
that's not something you gonna use to
blow a hole through someplace so you
throw any more energy outlets upon a
hole who somebody say why don't I just
throw that into a magnetic field to
accelerate a bullet up that's much
bigger you
horner tank that way with something as
same issue we have like ladies of
abortion we don't really talk about
laser proportion in a modern context too
much while we do talk about in terms the
interest always or highways for instance
because it's basically uses as
propulsions energy and efficient until
you at very high speeds where you can't
realistically you know get that kind of
exhaust velocity out of your out of your
propellant whereas the exhaust flossing
photons obviously the speed of light but
so yeah I really can't see laser guns in
that classic blowhole in your fashion
coming a style but we use lasers are no
guns all the time in the military
especially we used a lot of infrared
lasers and infrared spotlights a lot of
the impact to alpha is read about
generally those took a little bit time
to actually calibrate to the gun but the
very handy once these four nights - so
that's an example of a laser being used
on a gun already and last question for
you go to break tangent Ovaltine asks if
you haven't done so every I would love
to see a video dedicates a theme of
toning stupido into a son of that dwarf
how how would we could we do it and what
were the consequences for auth and
Saturn's moons [ __ ] SS system very
2000 I know but super fun 2001 there's
actually 2010 that they did that in the
sequel to 2001 Clark's book but I think
we actually have discussed doing that in
the colonizing zebra episode or maybe
when the other ones it's not actually a
good idea to do that uh you know he
couldn't all officially compress it that
way but we might take a look at that
sometime I have want to spend more time
in Jupiter cuz I was for like we kind of
brushed by Jupiter fairly quickly when
we when we did that one maybe could you
summarize Jupiter and follow up - uh oh
so we make a note of that someone
Jupiter has a follow-up to a springtime
always in which one Venus but all right
we're gonna go ahead and head to break
and we'll be back in a few minutes while
we're taking a quick break now is an
excellent time to grab a drink and a
snack and get some more questions in for
the second half of all show
this is our force livestream in the New
Year and I want to take a moment to
thank all the folks who help make this
show possible from all the volunteers on
the SFI a crew who help out on the
episodes or moderating your forms to
other donors and sponsors who help fund
the show and of course anybody watch it
SFI a relies on word-of-mouth or its
digital equivalent so every time you
watch a video hit the like button leave
a comment or share it with others it
helps us out answers the channel has
grown and subscribers every month since
that force video came out in late 2014
obviously a lot of folks have been doing
just that and I want to let you know how
much I appreciate that I also want to
particularly thank all script
out-of-doors today as we've been doing
about two scripts a week of late as I
kept various nebula exclusive and bonus
episodes and ever trying to get ahead on
scripts in advance my wedding at the end
of April and some anticipated downtime
from that will still have over you know
weekly episodes then but I'm cleaning
them done Olli
I suspect sometimes folks assume oh and
Rose just correct my misspellings and
bad grammar the hand indeed that is
quite a test some days but they're
generally very active in the actual
material itself either on the brainstorm
you know editing end and I wanna make
sure cut it goes where credit is due I
should also note that all our episodes
do you have a credit wall at the end to
acknowledge all the editors animators
and musicians whose work we use and
those who are also in the credits on
episode descriptions frequently with a
link next to their name to see more of
their walk and not invite you to explore
those there is some phenomenal talent in
the crew here and I count myself very
lucky that SF ia tends to attract such
folks we have a pretty busy schedule
coming up and of course you can see the
upcoming scheduled for February poppy up
in the upper right of the screen as we
talk today and that simply wouldn't be
possible without all those folks help me
out and again I can't thank them enough
if you do run into them on our forms or
checking out their walk on their own
sides let them know how much their help
is appreciated all that said let's get
back to the show
okay and we're back uh hon often fan 19
a switch place Oh system are you most
hopeful or what do you think life is
most likely to a core based on core
knowledge of astronomy hmm well in
system I would actually tend to put the
odds best still for like Europa Callisto
um Callisto I there's always option that
there's something you know bacteria was
still living on Mars of anything ever
live there out system uh you know
obviously there's always that tendency
to wanna look at someone's but Kepler
surveys and but yeah there's no one I
really say I had a big preference for
for that evening it's got a lot of
plants at that are in the habitable zone
and all of the earth mass I would
consider be good candidates but nothing
always sticks out in mind we because
surveys more surveys you know more the
actual catalogs of plants that are in
the orth mer so Dustin King asks what
would you do if you were the supreme
dictator for life of NASA what if you
had the DoD's budget if I had the DoD's
budget I would actually not throw that
entire thing out space travel so much it
is you know you can't always Vance these
things might asking money their way I'd
love to see more funny for it but over
funding things sometimes just results in
waste when I would do fight a very large
budget to play with though would be to
put I'd say the things I really like to
try to do forced probably play mouth
mass drivers here on author's a large
system a bit but a small rotating Space
Station you know something considerably
bigger than the ISS but something big
enough to come to Li simulate both Moon
and Mars gravity and then you know while
that's staging up get a moon base in
place a basic one and then start trying
to work on options for doing you know
mining and smelting on the moon to see
if we can actually stop key and things
like power satellites and you know all
those shades and meals and play and
start sourcing enough material that to
build big loss space stations at that
point that was going well that's when
I'd start thinking about maybe doing
orbital ring again over the Rings not
super advanced technology though you
need a lot of prototyping but it's more
that into a certain amount of throughput
into space a lot more we have nowadays
they don't Soviet porpoise I think the
analogy I usually uses
when you're going to orgone for the
first time you take the Oregon Trail you
don't build a freeway or a rail line out
there until there's already a lot of
people living up there so orbital rings
what you do when you start having lost
more people you know we got space hotels
when you got you know big Fritos coming
in carrying material from our four
zero-g manufacturing or you know gold
shipments from asteroids that sort of
thing
move Johnson thank you very much
thoughts on ultra dense deuterium read
book meadow as nuclear fusion fuel past
web so not exactly reactor designs it's
God's possibilities and the thing is
well DeeDee deuterium deuterium fusion
would be the nice one too because since
does involve tritium which is B ray or
we could actually just feel it locally
same for things probably helium-3 we
just don't have much helium-3 on earth
and the ultra-dense versions are
obviously if you can keep them confine
that wave and keep your coil going but
it's still fundamentally the same
problem we have a taco mark and other
designs for reactors or like probably
well or some of the other variations I
see the fusion power up so for
discussion suddenly is but it's got
potential
and that's the so out of a fusion I
almost feel like I'm gonna change that
by saying that's the one that's gonna
walk so thank you very much Edward
gaming what do you think about telescope
opposed by astronomer David kipping now
that was some China member with so if I
know what that is I think that was the
one where you want twenty entire plants
connected radio telescopes in a one big
single telescope and if I'm remembering
that one right and that is they are
definitely give a try on you know we
whole oak a lot of video telescopes
together right now to to get a big or
you know resolution big old image but
that requires a lot of coordination and
timing and trying to set them all to do
that nowadays there's more
sophistication more computerization but
that's something will get much much
better ad so if we can do it assuming
that I'm going with the Tarot script
correctly as that object and I'm
definitely a favor of it bow cough
casting ask Isaac do you have plans to
expand on other platforms of formats
even besides YouTube well we've got a
presence on nebula curiosity stream
we've got ourselves on [ __ ] I was a bit
chained for quite some time
for downloading videos and of course
write on soundcloud iTunes and I think
I'm gonna stuck me on Spotify anko
fairly soon too but I have to finish me
Sochi next I just came okay that existed
interesting thing about being a futurist
is how often you find in technologies
you never hold up or apps or software
you've never heard of and so yes but I
was trying to expand a platform to some
degree but fundamentally will you know
we host at at YouTube and other things
all mostly made to show people have
access to it again like the audio only
on iTunes or SoundCloud for people for
just listen or we embed them on Facebook
or write it and things like that so if
other streaming services like YouTube
pop into existence of course we'd start
going those two with the Loudoun though
there's always a hesitation initially
it's safe like alternatives to patreon
it's not just is this system reliable
one doesn't have enough audience so that
it's actually worth taking the tide up
put your videos up there which is a
little bit more complicated people tend
to assume but is everything secure and
with a lot of new ones one gets iffy
you know like with donations say we've
got this new site that so that's people
donate to you say that's great I need to
be sure that it's not storing these
people's information in a way that's
going to leave them open to to something
you know if you're raising money from
folks you have a certain commitment to
make sure that you're doing it safely so
we have to have to do a lot of
double-checking they are the same
applies for platforms people might
subscribe to is it is it ethical is it
safe is it secure and certainly a lot of
times even the ethics and the intent is
they over the smaller platform they just
don't got the resources to really ensure
that everything is running smoothly and
secure baseball duster asks would you
consider doing a video
in-depth video on strange stalls stalls
made a quart of strange quark mat or
strange which is always tempting to look
at but there's so much theory on that
I'm not sure if we able to do an entire
episode on that I think we did discuss
them in the compendium stores very
briefly though engine 1213 asks what do
you think the distant future of
government is do you think corporations
wind up controlling space instead
traditional nation-state yeah I kind of
feel like saying traditional
nation-states are not actually all that
traditional like what we think of as
nation-states these days did not exist
until four or five hundred years ago you
know maybe a little early
when I count maybe Olli fans but this is
a bit of a newer system you know you go
back to like maybe with Rome you could
make a bit of an argument on that cuz
leader well it wasn't respecting lived
in the city but most the great empires
the past was centered around a specific
city state and everybody else who was
either in there or in their shadow or
was one of their conquests it didn't
have that kind of nationalism that we
see nowadays that's a more recent
phenomena and it's constantly mutating
as to whether or not it's gonna be one
of those cyberpunk are things while the
corporations takeover I don't see that I
think that's that's what it was example
as well you know you always have power
blocks inside any system that moved to
have more power that's kind of nap you
can feel good or bad it could be very
noble organization to and so whatever
those are the main whatever form power
takes in a given system you would expect
those to have heavy influence over the
government or the cultural or
civilization was at the time but you
know we say corporations and people
misuse that amount of time anyway if you
live in a village or a city and in the
US for since you live in a corporation
and you know jiva like here that I'm and
that's an incorporated municipality
whereas the township I live in that it's
part of is a townships about the state
itself just a South Mejia neva City
that's an incorporated city almost every
large group things like packs for since
those all corporations they have to be
incorporated and it's basically our home
for any group of people that's been
officially sanctioned to put together
under some sort of shuttle so that you
have the legal power to sue them for
instance and they can legally pay taxes
or legally owned property and so in that
regard you know it it's any government
could be seen as a corporation already
but these things change with time and
with technology and culture so it trying
to guess what kind of government system
we'd have the future I certainly would
hope democracy stays popular but you
spread out to a million volts around a
million stalls and you know trillion
trillion habitats around those stores
perhaps we go culture shifts you and all
of them you're gonna have many many many
many different types of government I
would tend to think you know a thousand
variations on the same basic themes and
again you could have a hundred different
democracies don't mixes of
things too and not to have any that
exactly identical we'd say for instance
uh is United States a democracy or
Republic and of course the answer is
that's a gap asking if an apple is red
or fruit these are not contradictory
concepts and what else is well it's a
June talk we'll see of course older
people tend to be in charge can you be
present to you if only five or one sense
your authority so it's also a giant aqua
see it's also a cry talkie we will buy
judges and these things come in many
different flavors and you see them in
many different countries in different
formats so it's you know you have an
almost infinite number of government
variations you could have in play just
from what we think of as the more modern
versions and I would expensi almost
every last one of those pop up some
might go out of way because they're not
believe the most efficient on the other
you know we say we get more efficient we
get more practice than the future on the
other hand if you're going to
post-scarcity civilization you don't
necessarily care about how efficient
your government is especially things are
peaceful so you might have some very
inefficient ones there one place just
for ideological reasons Brasilia SMAP
who asks Isaac do you know what happened
with the hideous nine-game is that still
going on or was project canceled last I
heard it was still going on I haven't
talked to Nick in a few months
video game developments can go fast or
slow and you know they mostly just talk
to me when they want some lower aspects
for having given science and
technologies walking so as I'm not a
computer programmer and I know a lot of
things have to do with how they can
emulate this or that so I've got hold
for them in a few months but last I what
I think was very strong so I should
probably check in on that
let's see Thank You Ben Cheney
hey Isaac new subscriber and big fan
looking forward to hearing about life on
the O'Neill so and over this week it
should be a good episode we actually
just finished the traffic up for that
yesterday which is later than I usually
had them with some graphics coming in
and those sometimes delays getting those
up there's drafts but see which one okay
and right now is the video for
coexistence of humans and AI that's a
bonus episode up on february 9th but it
should be a fun episode and it was a
great deal fun to put together with some
very nice graphics that were designed
just for that episode so lone gunman
maybe three thank you very much would
you ever do a video critiquing the
pants as civilization what they could be
doing battle probably not
the expanse is one of those few
exceptions I've made to actually doing
episode kind of on a show back we did
surviving the expansive space it wasn't
too focused on that show but generally
speaking while I don't mind mentioning a
given book or giving setting in an
episode I don't really like to make the
entire episode about that now there was
always a temptation to do that I thought
about doing you know a sci-fi Saturdays
or sci-fi Sunday's episode once a month
that was just talking about some random
show came and then focusing on that but
they're all off shows do reviews SF
degrees one of my favorites for that and
you know sci-fi shows and we might dip
our hands do it occasionally but at this
time not so much but still we've that
season to come out though but we'll see
how that goes a lot of times between
changes which group is doing production
with the show can get better or so it
was a very good show so maybe it'll get
better but you know fingers crossed so
it's a good show and I would love to
finish the book series but I decided
that unlike with Game of Thrones what I
read in the books I'm not gonna read the
expanse novel was passed about whether I
had so in the TV show do you haven't
asked what you reckon is the most
profitable use of a I most proper use of
a I stock market probably probably using
it to analyze trends on the stock market
fire dragon fortune you a TAS if there
was one career that would be most
impactful on positive future what would
it be artificial intelligence research
probably that might be biasing for the
previous question you know it's we you
know we want to be kind of careful
saying that human civilization keeps
getting better from better science and
technology because well that is Sony
true that's not the whole effect it's
sometimes too caught being a horse to a
lot of times all ethics no morality
improve because we have a you know more
knowledge more more prosperity to biota
sometimes to afford ethics is a war at
the same time though I don't really like
to encourage folks to ever think of
influences society is being strictly
limited to
Science and Technology game battle so a
positive future maybe politician you
know I have quite a few friends who are
in that field and they they they buck
the norm they actually have ethics and
quite far to them I'm engaged one but in
terms of scientific research I would
probably say that AI research or medical
research on either DNA gene therapy or
neurology and mine documentation would
be the ones that would tend out the most
positive effect on us education
technology which probably involve
neurology and AI - those would be the
ones that are probably most important if
you can actually people learning faster
for instance the old awning battle that
has a huge impact on side is saying to
you for life extension so it's kind of
hard ever need an on one that would be
most positive but a lot of times a
technology can be though you know
technology has no ethics in them itself
if one technology can be turned into a a
home or your tool of a professional help
you know depending on how you choose to
use it
thank you very much Twilight Miss
appreciate it very much
Mirabelle Belle mirabela tarragon asks
what are your thoughts the United States
space for us um it's a bit overdue we've
been talking about putting that in place
since Reagan's day possibly before but
of course that for those who were up the
Star Wars program from the 80s it keeps
coming up same as going back to the moon
keeps coming up and I'm glad to see one
of these fine got moving
I regret very deeply that's become a bit
of a political issue because it's it
shouldn't be it's been something the
military's been asking for for why all
these parts of the military have the Air
Force until the 1960s 1950s I came in
which was part of the United States Army
as the US Air Corps and actually a
stationed at Fort Sill which for all of
us who are till we went to boot camp and
trainee an but they want to be a
separate command so they could focus
better on doing their specific job and
we've had mostly the Air Force
covering the space into things for four
decades now and it's reaching the point
where in terms of our interest they are
you serious be probably a cyber security
department that we separate you know
vulturo space force it's helpful
sometimes have a separate branch on the
other hand I do ten times feel like it
can set the
borrowing on too many subdivisions you
really have no reason having a separate
branch of the United States military
until you are at least a divisional
strength and and I don't mean pretend Oh
divisional strength where you've got
well you know one general with two
corners or anything we have to
lieutenant corners under each of them we
have two majors of them and you end up
some division that's got like three
thousand people and instead of like
fifteen to twenty thousand people but
generally if you're not up to at least
divisional strength I wouldn't see a
reason to have a separate command but
there was also something we said about
foresight we're only going to need to
expand interest in space because you can
some weird press I don't why people
think we're going to be largely up in
space but also it's like you know space
troop also got that it's it has to be
mostly with satellites who is Leo is
gonna be on the ground from the hell
which would sleep ass what are your
thoughts about on a train to the space
excuse me what are your thoughts on the
train to space system there's being
talked about do you have any ideas that
would be a better idea for the concept
I'm afraid I'm not sure what you
referring to you they are like we have
the orbital ring or the last remove
which are arguably like that obviously
I'm a very big proponent of the orbital
ring though again not at this time to me
the ordering is something you build like
a century down the road when you have
the need for it seems like a freeway or
realign and then actually will let you
take a train up to space at one and I
think we've discussed in that obsessing
the others but there's some interesting
ways you can chain together various
various rings to create something l you
don't actually direct transport even
directly to the moon on a train they'd
be very clear for how you're matching
things up so to move those around so but
it's always nice you don't use
propellant you know you don't deal with
the rocket equation and you can reclaim
a lot your energy a slow thing down so
that's what's nice about train based
kind of concepts and vacuum trains
especially can you just accelerate up to
really high speeds but seriously with a
Hyperloop
whether or not we build one of those in
the next decade or so they all suddenly
will probably want to build more of in
the future just because there's no
they'll do much more efficient and of
course it's just a question of is it
what the capital investments and you
know cars take you through the
engineering challenges I mean already
clear all questions out to me I think we
have time for a few more questions let
me score
grab a couple more for leverage for em
Janny la silly-ass what is your take on
the possibility that we're still having
major or great filters ahead of us this
is a funny paradox question we look at
the phony paradox we have certain things
that we think life would have to go
through or even before life like plants
be in the habitable zone of the system
and that would control whether or not
you'd ever expect them to enjoy a
civilization that we could detect now
for me paradox being focused on us you
know detect an alien civilization
so those mostly focus on people getting
up to where we are at right now but we
couldn't actually detect ourselves if we
wore a couple light centuries away right
now so there are four though steps ahead
for anything to get to the point where
we be able to protect it right now and
we call those the late photos and
they'll presumably still ahead of us and
we start to kind of get through them I
usually only use two blanket ones the
desire and capability to get to other
sources and to colonize them and the
ability to avoid blowing yourself to
smithereens with your technology AI for
instance by the way is is usually not
gonna be a fully paradise filter because
if you you know Skynet takes on the plan
now you have Skynet's the humans it's
not for me paradox solution still wants
to go and explore or settle or colonize
or resource harvest I don't see them
being you know the thing about the late
filters in terms of us is either
something to lower the odds just a
little bit like nuclear war might kill a
civilization off or their absolute ones
they're ones that nobody ever gets
around you like if we'd say everybody
always invented an AI that killed
everyone then committed suicide you know
if that was something that inevitably
happened then
nobody bases that filter on that would
be a great filter because grateful to
someone's mean you sell like lottery
odds me million to one that you could
through them whereas on my no filters
arm or even where we sometimes call a
lesser filter on the show you know
things so less than less likely and not
to be a filter for most civilizations
that sense we I think of it for most of
the ones that would qualifies the photos
that either you know almost everybody
gets to them or only you know a pretty
big fashion to at least so I don't tell
the really great on major filters ahead
of us but we do that they probably be on
the great side things are just wipe
almost every hour
bula Road shown ass
what are your thoughts on the future of
food what you think you might be do you
think it might ever be possible to
consume pills that we follow nutrients
mmm yes you could you know a lot of the
old science fiction you'd have them have
some kind of like high-tech pill they
could chew on that taste like anti oh
nice meal and kept them fully filled and
I was just I was recently watching the
original Doctor Who episodes from way
back the season one stuff in black and
white and in I think the first episode
that had a Daleks and if they offer them
some food pellets and the thing is if
you suck all the water out of something
you can reduce it to pre small size like
dehydrated food but yeah if you're using
the densest ones you can get you know
it's nothing but fat protein carbs but
no water in it you're not gonna eat a
pill that's gonna have all that energy
in it so you can't have hyper compact
food like that if you're using you know
food now on the other hand if you've
configured itself to be some kind of
cyborg then you could presumably eat a
pill of deuterium for your internal
fusion reactor that will keep you going
for a billion years about that but
that's not really what I call food in
that context but of course you always
have the option of just having yes a
pill full of nutrients it's got you know
50 calories in it and you eat week or
something like that Bob asked question
would you consider doing an in-depth
video on deep dive via technology is it
more likely to happen with our lifetime
than life extension I don't know we've
done the vulture awards episode for
instance which kind of covered the the
science of futurism angle of it and I do
keep think about actually doing a
virtual reality episode I mean an
episode that's in virtual reality as
opposed to you know on that topic per se
just cuz we start having the assets
available and do that but um I don't
know if I wanna we you know go back to
lucky and VR in depth in walks again
we're not really interested in the
specific technology of you know what for
triage is that gonna be like in ten
years from now but we might do that as
to whether we'll have watch reality for
life extension
to be a vote really now I've got a VR
headset do we have life extension now
we've got a chemotherapy and all sorts
of life extension technologies you know
all medical technologies live extension
and we already have some vo so which one
did we get for so say would you get
biological immortality or full emotion
VR forced and the answer is I have no
idea but I would attend think we're both
for the end of the 24th century so hard
to say for sure let's do one last
question of a car quits for the day I
can find one last question ad Rahab asks
do you think that sci-fi energy weapons
like plasma laser cetera are possible
well we were talking about the laser
ones earlier on of course you can make
laser weapons but it's not about a laser
weapon in space is there's no ao2 to
spread the beam out and it moves the
speed of light so it's very good for
hitting things and you can punch little
tiny holes in things or fire
communications with it but mostly the
fact it moves really fast plasma weapons
that's actually little bit more possible
because plasma unlike lasers is actually
containing particles so they have a ton
of momentum behind them for their energy
that they're carrying and so a way
that's kinda like a mine
bullets are really good at what they do
but you could see playas weapons for
some things perhaps as a lot of the
other high-tech weapons you know they're
very popular in some of the early sci-fi
and then became very popular the early
movies and video for sci-fi because they
could do that special effect really well
but I don't think they're going to be
nearly as prevalent as they as they
people tend to expect that they would be
um you know if you place chemical
weapons with something that probably be
magnetic railguns if you can make those
portable and fast enough but it's just
hard to say I'm sure there will be much
more high tech things in long run but
you know we've been having our best
century for technological improvements
in this last century and yet most of all
weapons or things that were pretty much
invented in you know more than century
ago and we still use models know very
similar to it like the the MA deuce the
m2 50 Cal browning that we're so fond of
in the army that's literally the same
gun it was you know when thing got
invented in the first half a 24th
century
sorry 20th century and you make blue
improvements things like the metallurgy
for cooling down and things like that so
it's uh you know I'll take one more
there because that's not an interesting
question so do you think we could ever
invent the ability to live without sleep
and of course the answer that is really
yes we don't absolutely have to have
state but we don't really know for sure
what sleep already does and live people
give people good book reference to
follow up for the idea of not falling
asleep of clearing out fatigue chemicals
for fatigue poisons it does get covered
in Alistair when I was revelation in
space here is quite large and that is a
book series I'm sure I recommended me
times for that bla folks would puppy
enjoy sleep is important to staying
alive as we say right now and we could
probably engineer people so that wasn't
necessary but you'd probably have to
play with their fundamental brain
architecture quite heavily so then of
course some people might ask for whether
or not they really want to cut that out
but you might find that the period of
time needed for sleep some people might
find some way to advance that to speed
it up you would talk about subjective
reality subjective time experience so
you might have ways need to be able to
speed up your sleep cycle or you might
do all the things while you're asleep
you might have your plane if your mind
augmented learning in virtual utopia so
some like that while you were sleep so
or do some morning but it is a thought
of our lives at least I hope so thought
your life because that's not something
you want to cut down on you know you do
not enhance your productivity by
sleeping six hours days to the eight so
it's a third of our lives and be nice
people to use it for something else but
you see how that ends up developing for
now though you know sleep is probably
gonna stay necessary until you
fundamentally alter the human playing
architecture or so alright we'll go
ahead and close out from there thank you
ever so much for the questions and if
you have more of them do leave them in
the comments and I'll try to get them
next day or so so again thank you very
much for joining us and we will see you
on Thursday
so that wraps up today's livestream Q&A
if you had a question we didn't get to
or another came to mind feel free to put
that in the comments on the video and
I'll be back later this evening to
answer them you can also pop in to our
Facebook with science and futurism with
eyes Agathe to discuss topics with
like-minded individuals or any of our
other four
thanks again for joining us today and
we'll see you Thursday
you
