okay we should be getting started for a
monthly Q&A session we're just gonna
wait real quick until we find out if
anything's live and healthy boy you get
into the details but this is a little
bit earlier that we normally like to do
them because we like do them at the end
of the month but it turns out for
January in February we had them at the
very end of the month on Thursday is the
28th and 34 Star Thursdays for this
month so we'll do this one January 20th
because we missed our one foot assemble
while waiting for questions to come in
and for me to get more that all the
video is actually up and walking we did
have a couple questions I asked for on
the community tab and the Facebook page
we got started and the one we're going
to start with is retirement age somebody
had asked if we would have how
retirement would walk if we had life
extension immortality and that's kind of
an interesting one because we can kind
of see where that's starting off even
nowadays retirement was not really
something people did much in the past if
you look like more a century or so back
you didn't really completely retire and
these days people tend not to completely
retire any more year they all continue
to work part-time or get involved in
community groups and so a lot of its
gonna depend on the civilization you've
got going for you but you're not like we
have a pension or social security that
just lasted forever you know you can do
maybe 10 or 15 years or something like
that
I thought your work time but I don't see
how you'd be able to do that for you
know centuries so you might retire
temporarily basically take a sabbatical
or you might just cut back once you have
an income that was sufficient to support
you in your retirement and then we also
had a question about being able to get
energy from tectonic plates and because
there was a fair amount of energy in the
earth in terms of geothermal and the
tectonic plates obviously oh enough to
release volcanoes mountains and so on I
don't really know how you would tap that
other than by geothermal power and more
classic sense those are usually fairly
warm areas and it is something you would
like to do because there's a decent
amount of power there but I think for
the most part you would get it as a
secondary effect
whatever you will try and do I don't
think it'd be profitable in of itself
but if you were using it as a way to go
ahead and get some free power while
you're doing something to relieve that
tectonic pressure that might be a
pathway that you wouldn't go alright so
we'll go ahead and start taking
questions from the chat today at this
point in time so you know there's a
couple of volunteers who help out going
through the comments as we go and they
pick questions up so they little bit of
time to pick them up and post them in
there do be careful with your grammar
and spelling because I think only had
the vacuum raccoons last time around
where somebody had done a typo and I
wasn't sure what sake about from terms
of vacuum balloons and while we're
waiting for the first question to pop up
there let me just go ahead overall
schedule real quick for next month we
still have two videos left for this
month space prison colonies that's
January 24th and for me paradox and
panspermia for January 31st and then
we'll have the monthly scheduled for
February popping up is a pop-up window
as we go along all right first question
from Abu anga Denali so if I
mispronounce that question what's your
actual what what's actually the first
rule of warfare in your opinion for
those of you who are familiar with the
forced Wars of warfare that we do from
time time that's actually an old joke
from the military it seemed like every
one of my sergeants
always had a forced rule that was the
most important thing and they never had
a second rule you know it was always
this is the forced war what's the most
important thing you have to do and I
think that actually kind of reflects not
just the military but a lot of things
where you have all sorts of priorities
all sort of things you need to know what
the most important thing is and often
there really isn't one that stands out
but you know these are not things that
stand out by themselves as something you
would always have as the one thing you
have to couple sometimes be something
like shoot move and communicate or
whoever has the best intelligence is
going to win or whoever's the fastest
army will win whoever's the best
technology is going to win and in almost
every one of these cases then it's like
one of them is somehow more important
than the others but they're each totally
vital and that's that's the force well
as a warfare joke
also quite a few of them are
contradictory you know the force of all
of warfare is the best offense is a good
defense and then we have the other one
which is the best defense is a good
offense so in many cases it's just
trying to deal with a situation hand and
what seems to make sense to everybody at
the top and everybody's got their
favorites so we have a question from
Stephen B could you use the LIGO
satellites to make a gravitational map
of the universe how many satellites
would you need and what would be a good
distance between them I'm not actually
sure the more you have the better
resolution you're always going to get
and obviously you've got a limited field
of view on those you need to quite a few
in the overlap and create a complete map
[Music]
is one of those things because there's a
looks can be very big detectors I think
that you would probably do spot
detection you know just do little areas
piece by piece and just kind of have it
up to a single map because towards the
background for the universe not gonna
really change that much except for you
know discrete events Mike Harrington
asks why can't we transform atmospheric
co2 in a self-sustained hydrocarbons
fuel cycle it's only chemistry isn't it
yeah actually it is only chemistry the
problem is and it's it's very simple
chemistry taking water and carbon
dioxide and turning it back into a
hydrocarbon gasoline butane whatever is
chemically very easy it's something we
know how to do as long as we've had
calls the problem is it's endothermic
when you born a hydrocarbon it releases
heat energy and you can use that for
power we try to cram it back together
you're going to have to put that energy
back in and then some order to actually
just do the process so if you try to run
a cycle like that it's going to cost you
energy not produce energy however and
there's a critical kavion that we
basically use fossil fuels as a we do
use them for mainstay power generation
of course but you can convert a war to a
completely nuclear or a fusion basis or
if you have that for producing
electricity very large carbon neutral
things we do use a four mainstay power
to though like coal power plants but
what you can't do with those big power
plants is make something that's mobile
you need to use a small fuel like a
chemical
or battery so potentially you could and
and with batteries you typically
speaking are using way more energy to
fuel that battery way more cost to make
that battery then it would cost for just
plugging into the wall so if you could
produce gasoline without twice as much
energy as you get out of it
that doesn't work for mainstay power
generation but it's great for fuel and
that make it a carbon neutral fuel so
potentially if you have more energy
abundant so you go very strongly nuclear
fission nuclear you could use gasoline
basically as a battery and again I call
the neutral one but you cannot use that
process to create power as your baseline
you you need something in the background
that's producing power cheaper that you
can use to create that fuel out of we
have a question from Mike bulk Zimmerman
with a counter shift to type scale make
a telescope about the size of the moon's
orbit be able to provide accurate images
of exoplanets and nearby star systems I
have to double-check that we did cover
that one in the mega telescopes episode
if you build a telescope big enough
you'll get the resolution for it the
that's one of the things but it comes
down to are you seen a pixel or you've
seen multiple pixels and we look at most
stall as most plants what we see is a
single pixel and you have to get much
larger lab for it's going to actually
take up more than one pixel and give you
any sort of real resolution you can get
data off a pixel you know it's it's if
your television screen is completely
flat white that is a single pixel and it
was dim or dim or white that might tell
you that there was a less bright object
they are if it's bright a wider a
stronger object but until you get a big
old resolution I think it is about
planet-sized to to get a look at the
exoplanet that's about a hundred light
years away if you want to get like a
good photograph resolution that's the
only way you can do that and yeah you
can build telescopes that big though I'm
not sure you would want to in most cases
it might be easier just to do a flyby it
with a satellite okay our next question
is from into the flames what's the
general idea of the happily ever after
video and you are making
that's actually another joke we had
noticed we always notice when there's a
holiday on a Thursday and we we never do
them for Thanksgiving because
Thanksgiving is always a thoughtless day
and we're not gonna do an annual
Thanksgiving special but there was a
holiday March 14th is Valentine's Day
and so we thought it'd be fun to take a
look at how relationships might walk in
the future and in terms of things like
that and I think the happy-ever-after
thing is more of a nod towards the idea
of very long lifespans and you know is
it possible to do relationships that
last multiple centuries and in science
fiction they often say that it is not
and that's the most I'd say on that
episode is that we're gonna see if we
can explore that and see if it's
actually possible to contemplate
relationships with people that might
last you know potentially thousands of
years
Kenny caught me alas there has been more
press regarding Elon Musk Norling lately
what are your thoughts on that project
nothing's really changed on that score
with Noah link um it's something we need
to be researching it's just that right
now it seems more like it's a very loose
you know instead of intent that we'd
like to be able to do a man-machine
interface I haven't seen too much to
indicate that there's really a solid
roadmap to what we need to do to be able
to you know usefully plug something into
the side of your head and have that spit
out text what are you just thinking
about it or letting you manipulate
something it's there's a lot of pathways
you can go for that and it's going to be
figure out which ones are easiest to
access which ones are easiest to adapt
because your brain is designed for
certain types of bandwidth and of course
your eyes are one the highest bandwidth
so that's you know a perfect input
source compared to say text or healing
that's more like in the killaby range
you know our vision being megabytes
it's a project I'd like to see move
forward but another way seeing anything
concrete they are that's you know a
product that's gonna be out soon that we
could really make use of so we'll see
how that goes but until then it's to me
it's a good project to start walk on but
strictly expected oh so far I guess the
follow-up that move Johnson ass would
you have an AI duplicate of yourself
working with or for you
I've always liked this kind of concept
of copying yourself or part of yourself
to help out with your walk we talked
about copying minds and Alastair
Reynolds has an example this in its
revelation space thing they often have
what's called a beta leper touring which
is one that's been absorbing you for
years and years every moment of the day
and it just kind of replication pounds
it's smart but it's not really sentient
or what maybe it is that's one of the
arguments going on the book if you had
an assistant that washed you every day
um they could edit your style very well
they could apply the correspondence for
you very well you know if you've worked
with an edit or things like that before
they get to know you well enough that
they can pretty much mimic your style
fairly decently that's a very
advantageous for applying to a lot of
things but you don't have time for doing
them or for a lot of basic Scott walk
however there's a problem that you can't
really reintegrate that into your mind
so you apply to an email from someone
only it wasn't you and you don't have
that conversation so all that would
certainly be handy I think it has a
limited application you could make like
a beta level that would be a doctor or
they could form hundreds of soldiers for
you instead of one person having to that
soldiery that's very handy but to the
individual what you really be looking
for is something that allows you to have
a copy of yourself that was off doing
stuff and then could we integrate that
into your own memories so that you had
essentially done it yourself as opposed
just having you know basically a very
good assistant who is good at mimicking
your behavior Nakara sass when it comes
to uplifting isn't there an issue where
I god complex could lead to a
civilization who uplifts lesser races
the start becoming genocide all maniacs
killing anything they deem unworthy
whenever you're doing with a high-tech
civilization in terms of its
relationship to lower tech civilizations
there's always going to be that complex
issue that's kind of one of the reasons
why the prime directive from Star Trek
is so attractive it's very easy to abuse
people that you all overpower and you
can start off with it being for their
own good it's also very easy when you're
making those kind of life-and-death
decisions about which species to lift up
and which ones not to just not saying
maybe we should just sterilize this one
out of it
assistance maybe this one's just bad or
isn't good good for potential
civilization and that's not something
that we can you know rule out could
happen I think that's one of those
things where you always have a
temptation to do it shameful uplifting
in general you know if you can make a
small or dog or a small or cat there's a
temptation to do that and I don't know
if that's ethical or not that's
something that we have to have that that
conversation about before we can
actually do it or get into trouble one
of the advantage of science fiction is
that often tells us and for uplifting
the big book series to discuss law this
is David Burns uplift saga but with
these ethical conversations if you wait
to have them till they are like they're
ready to go you often gonna get a lot of
localized rationalizations and problems
about the technology where people really
aren't thinking about with a clear head
cuz it's very imminent and you know your
force example you have somebody's
conveyed uplift a horse because they
want that horse to be small about racing
if that's the first one that people have
to think about on they're gonna have a
lot of ethical issues that will connect
to the motivations for why that person
wants to uplift that specific horse and
that could make them have very bad more
judgments very bad precedents they were
being set by that so one of the
advantage of science fiction what we try
to do here is to try to look at what
those ethical issues are just not
talking about them before they become an
imminent threat that's a little bit you
up in our face to be thinking about
collectively soberly and calmly Luke B
asks what is the most practical way to
use hydrogen fusion to power a starship
assuming mu on assistive fusion is
improved by reducing their energy cost
and electron volts is reduced enough
there's a couple of when you're running
a fusion drive the question is are you
using it for panel or using it for heat
ideally because he and you know you
might evolve very great deal of heat how
do you get rid of that when you're
blowing gigawatts of power behind you
any given moment if you absorb even a
fraction at your ship's got overheating
melt so ideally with like a fusion torch
drive all the fusion all the energy all
the heat is gains
smashed out the back and you know
basically you're not absorbing again if
you're running a power plant though it
was something like an ion drive then
you're having to deal with all that heat
you're using that for power you're
losing a little bit of efficiency there
too and their power generation process
and you have to radiate that all the way
with big radiating fins which is not too
big an issue in space but often you have
problems of the critical temperature in
an actual core because if you've got
tons of radiating fans used to have some
core somewhere that's generating a 3040
thousand Kelvin or higher you know can
easily mean the millions of Kelvin and
if you can't get that he radiates away
fast enough then it's going to overheat
and melt down and destroy your system
and that's one of means why a lot of the
atomic tries we look at often seem like
they're producing a much lower final
velocity cruising velocity then you
would expect based on them having a
million times more energy than chemical
was when they when they used a million
times as much energy to expect a
thousand times the speed but that's not
usually much was seen out of those and
that's just gonna be one of those things
where it depends you know the I one of
the things that's nice about the Orion
Drive or the Daedalus where you're using
nukes and blowing them up behind you is
that all that energy is being released
behind you it's pushing you forward and
whatever you are fighting away from that
is you know all the heat shock storm is
just whatever your absorption is on
there and you can have some big wide
plate that's doing a lot of the
radiating and so that is one of the
reasons why that approach allows a
pretty high speed compared to me start
looking like electrical drives any more
of an ion base one being run by an by an
atomic reactor Ashley Johnson asks do
you think space debris will ever become
such a hindrance that we can't leave our
planet no you could have accidents that
happen that could cause a temporary drop
in that but they're all solutions for
doing with that I'm trying to mobile
what episode we talked about that and I
think was Upward Bound series probably
overall infrastructure if you're
building a lot of stuff up in space the
hazard for it happening and gets bigger
and bigger but sure infrastructure for
dealing with that gets bigger when we go
to
you can vaporize it you can use a laser
room - you know you heat up one side of
it and that radiates it away
you get a little bit of a blasian and
that kind of asks a pound to drive it
down so you could be using a plate the
tops of things so I push down to the
surface of the earth but you need to
have a very accurate detector good up
there
the nice thing though is that lasers and
radars work really well in space so if
you've got that infrastructure up there
that's actually in danger of Tony into
the the debris cloud UI also means you
are in a position to be putting all that
equipment in place that would let you
deal with that debris cloud and you
would want to have land side things to
you if you built up enough you might be
able to bring him in from another planet
or the moon but you want to have
land-based facilities that could
actually shoot those things up into
space and take care of them too but it
caused a serious inconvenience in the
same way a bridge falling down could
cause a serious inconvenience to like
New York City and that in give me and
involve people getting killed - same as
a perch going down but those aren't
really civilization threatening events
and I don't think Kessler syndromes in a
position do that I though it's one of
the things we are most you might need
months to clear away the majority of the
debris that was safe again hydrogen
cyanide asks how long do you think until
we have brain simulations human brain
simulations that's actually a good
caveat because you know probably do an
ant's brain or a lobster's brain right
now decades it's not just a technology
issue of trying to put them together
where you either scanning people's
brains or trying to guess your way to
simulating them you're going to start
hitting roadblocks from bureaucratic
administrative angles you'd get closer
and closer to that even see that now
like 30 years ago if people talk about
AI almost every was on the futurism
angle would be saying no no no we need
to keep going forward this stuff it's
it's you know don't get worried by movie
site or made or stuff like that as we
get closer and closer to it we will see
more and more folks on futurism side
start shifting to a more cautious
approach say we're getting close we have
a lot of advantages for this technology
that we can see while you're getting a
lot of them but we need to be careful
and at that point in time I think you
see a lot of regulations being pushed
into play that were telling people to
you know
have to go through X Y & Z process and a
much more scientific mal like clinical
testing these days and that has its
downsides well the slowest things
getting us new medications is all the
time delays that we have for testing out
new pharmaceuticals possibly more than
is really a good idea to have in fact
but um you would want to get rid of
those completely either start having a
lot of people get dead if we we start
even out those clinical trials and if
you start getting rid of you know
limitations on AI resource once we start
playing those in play you could end up
with you know the Skynet situation and
so I would tend to think that will be
the one that slows down AI and here in
brain simulation the most is just
procedural things but they're making you
check and double-check every last bit as
you go
dextra asks what you think would be the
immediate effects to a society with an
equatorial space elevator assuming we
could build a space elevator and say we
didn't went out the coast of brazil
that's one of favorite places for it um
and it doesn't have to be exactly at the
equator though that's handy the same for
launch sides I mean obviously that
location just because it makes space
travel so much cheaper at that site too
so you mean looking at potentially
megatons of material going up there
every year they're all limits as to how
much mash can push up a single space
elevator though I mean that would become
a very major city potentially you know
that's one of those places where
somebody might twenty years down the
road say we should move the UN they are
it's it's kind of a center for our new
growing civilization and it's got no
baggage on it so that is you know for
whichever place gets those which would
presumably be Africa Southeast Asia or
South America that would be a very good
economic boom for those locations and
you can kind of guess the same as me on
board that would look like you know we
had the Gold Rush and California on the
18-49 and I don't think you can predict
Silicon Valley or Hollywood from that
but I think that would see a big growth
to that particular City hmm
Bodie McCloud asks would space-based
solar power for use on earth still be
useful with commercially viable fusion
if we already had developed a
large-scale system for hand leave the
notion I mean if you
a big solar power Network in space and
somebody comes by and invents a cheap
fusion plant what happens to all that
solar power and the answer on that is
what's the cost differential between
that fusion plant in that solar Powell
and you might have a phase-out Meo
period where the fusion still fairly new
and they're getting it set up down on
earth and during that time you know that
solar power is just getting less
maintenance oh can you minor
improvements that let's stay in a fight
longer
or you might have a situation where it
will remain cheaper for certain
applications you know if you don't have
good superconductors you're gonna have
palm skiing power of certain locations
if you've got a fusion plant it has be a
mile big what good is that the folks
living on an island in the Pacific or in
a small town in the middle of nowhere so
we can never assume any one given energy
method is going to instantly go place
all the others or that would just
destroy a given market but it could
change them out a lot as to repurposing
it's you could use them as solar shades
or so the Mules were just gramm back in
a cycle and any solar panel that we put
in space is going to have a lifetime on
that unit even if it's just a simple
meal with a protected shielded collector
that it kind of bounces and concentrates
that into they're gonna get scratched up
they're gonna get damaged and you're
gonna be constantly cycling them so you
might just peel them down and your pare
down production on that and just slowly
remove the hose to be used for other
purposes we pop a some recycle them but
you could certainly see an economic loss
in that area if you know if there's been
a huge industry there and somebody gets
a place buy something else well that's
nothing new to us that that's something
we deal with almost every year here some
industry basically collapses as gets a
place so sometimes the slow claps
sometimes it's fast sometimes only
partial they say that a TV killed the
radiostar but I know tons of people
still do radio so sometimes just changed
what a nice to add go be googly ass by
the way I'm sorry if I'm mispronouncing
people's names for video how close are
we to being able to use robots to build
living areas or other useful things on
the moon or near earth I think we're
pretty much already there we need to
focus a little bit more into prototyping
them and it is a little bit tricky
because you're trying to make the
smallest thing you can which means very
little mass and
you know the axle was you don't need to
be that thick and it's hard to
field-test something in one gravity
that's designed for 0.17 gravity in a
vacuum so we're gonna have to go through
some prototyping phase as they are and
some improvements once we actually do
those but I would say we're already at
the point with our robotics that we
could be doing that if we if we had a
plan in mind for the moon we'd have to
go through a few years of deciding what
kind of robots we needed and what kind
of tasks they're doing though and that
fortunately is probably one of those
things that you could hold off on doing
because they'll be improving every year
too until somebody says we want to do a
moon base that's heavily focused on
robots and that point in time yourself
prototyping those robots and you have to
replace them almost instantly as you
find better designs that walk better in
their local area low vacuum that you
couldn't test until you actually had a
facility there then in terms of basic
robots control interfaces I'd say we're
pretty much our way they are in terms of
remote controlled ones automated ones a
little bit less so mjk asks how do you
think we'll actually refine metal ore
from asteroids in zero-g is there a
difference in technology that we use for
that than what we use here on earth
something worth noting on that is that
we don't know that we would be doing in
zero-g when you you could potentially
for instance one thing that's miss
jessie's you put a big my ball bag
around the asteroid and then just bake
it and stuff comes out and you separate
it as a gas but you can also create you
know if you're living on these things
you've got my nose living on those
things they're going to have a gravity
environment that they stay in if they're
there for a while or they're gonna need
some gravity and then you can just build
your furnaces and smelters inside that
pressurised low gravity of normal
gravity area that they would use then
that's popular depend a lot on the
specifics of how we are doing the
asteroid mining in terms of getting the
personnel equipment out there as well as
on what elements being refined in that
case because some of them might have
easier tricks you know battle catalysts
or systems that walk with you our zero
gravity or of the vacuum than all those
to speed up on these questions because
we have a ton of them building up
richardclark ass apologies I missed this
episode where this was in if we extend
life by uploading ourselves into another
body
sidewalk what is stopping us from
uploading ourselves in a multiple buys
at the same time I know we did cover
that in an episode but I can't which one
it was maybe somebody can add that in
the comments but we have talked about
using it as a way of doing space
colonization for instance for you you
don't have enough people volunteering to
go to other plants you must have now
millions of expeditions but you only got
a thousand volunteers and need 500 per
colony so you just use combinations of
that original thousand volunteers and
each of your ships or the say 500 people
and each of those is a pretty unique
combination and there's so many
perturbations you can do off of
permutations you can do off of you know
that supply and that is when we could do
it so you know you might be there might
be a half a million of you on board a
million different colony ships going out
to space there's nothing that's
particular you from doing that sort of
thing whether or not you'd want to and
other people might object on ethical
lines that you're essentially
reproducing yourself you know questions
like if I make a copy of myself before
the next election should that copy of me
be allowed to vote yeah
so those are things people gonna start
picking up they would also say what real
value we are you might just adding one
more of you and the other people saying
I don't want a copy of me too so the
technical end there's nothing stopping
you on the moral or ethical end there
there could be issues that we'll have to
think about a more johnson ass could you
use memory implants to reintegrate the
results of assist in the eyes
we were talking only about being able to
take copies like that and reintegrate
them them into your own memories the
palm is all over men we don't really
what you call digital easily accessible
so trying to actually weave a new memory
into someone's head could cause problems
of course science fiction shows us a lot
of examples of implanted memories where
people get tripped up by you know they
they find out they've had their memories
screwed with because of inconsistencies
and you have I think a lot of the same
kind of problems that might cause
psychosis in people so I do not know
nearly enough about neurology to know
how to suggest how we go about doing
that but it should in theory at least be
possible and if someone can find a
decent way of doing it then that would
be very useful because you could then
have copies of yourself they're off
handling things well we're still
basically you
only pissed books ass what do you think
is the best near-future method of
deflecting potentially hazardous
asteroids gigantic glaze or nuclear
bombs um yeah this kinda depends on the
circumstances it's probably and as no
people he wants to have a bunch of
nuclear weapons hanging out in space but
if we get a little bit more built up in
space it would be a good idea to have
some missiles that war
see you around in orbit um and that you
could and already fuel that could you
know track onto something like that and
run out to meet it and blow it up and
people say well if you nuke an asteroid
it's not gonna do that much survive yeah
well I do not know where people get the
idea that you can't blow up but killing
me a wide asteroid with a nuclear bomb
if you intercept too close you're going
to shock on the planet but that means
you know setting it like closer than the
moon is if you're not detecting big
asteroids until they always close to the
moon is oh that's this close you can
intercept them then you need to improve
your grid the other option that that
would be better in the long term that
would be a good lease or defect you know
we talked about clearing space debris
from eye on the planet in case we get
cash flow syndrome you want to have
oceans of that that you could use to
just hit the side of an asteroid so that
it warm that up and when you're warming
that up just like a comet produces a
propellant trail and that's gonna push
it off the side so you lays one side not
to vaporize the whole thing but just to
give it a good push and you don't
necessarily want to deflect it too much
because an asteroid is a valuable thing
to a space space industry you you know
you see an asteroid coming your way it's
like a free payday that's resources up
in space that's easily accessible if you
can get into an approach for that not
slamming your planet but if we see a
push towards using things like light
proportion laser proportion then
problems like space debris and it's one
of ways one fund of laser propulsion if
you're using that system you have a very
good system in place for clearing debris
or for dealing with potentially
hazardous asteroids this system you're
already using to push ships back and
forth can you can just take the ones
don't being used for anything else right
now or your extras resolve ones and turn
them on that asteroid and it's you know
all right
you're all gonna ask what audiobooks are
you listening to right now I actually
just got done listening to yeah taking
me forever to get through the series a
Glenn cooks black company I think it
actually talked about on one of the
episodes coming up just cuz it was on my
mind I started the series years and
years ago yeah but I not gotten through
to the late old books and I'm not sure
which one I'm going to stalk cuz I
literally just finished that and I don't
you ago I was think about time I had
with Millar's and book would have fallen
again I could never seem to get to go
into the mirror which the fourth book
everyone tells me is a really great
fantasy series malazan Steve Erickson I
think is the Arthur but for some reason
I always get stopped in the first few
chapters of that audiobook but maybe
I'll give it a second try
as for black company that's when I just
finished up very good series although I
wasn't too happy with the newest book
Porter shadows that I guess it just come
up um the dummy was okay just wasn't
great very dark though so something that
comes up with fantasy series a lot for
people watching them on TV but don't
read the book series there watch
something like Game of Thrones we say oh
my god that that show they kill off so
many the main characters and say Game of
Thrones is actually very low on killing
off main characters compared to most
fantasy series so this black company is
obviously the Vicks act opposite
direction which o'clock asks if we can
extend life by uploading ourselves into
new bump into a new body what is
stopping us uploading into multiple
bodies at the same time and what is the
that we just do me recover that one I
think we did already cover that one a
choco ass would one possible future of
humanity be the construction of array of
masher brain borscht plant shell wards
or do you think other mega structures we
plant more palm in the future I would
say that as a whole the really big
things like botch plants are managers
campaigns if probably not something we'd
see around this planet unless we go a
very specific pathway if I don't watch
the evolution because you obviously it's
not evolution when you're designing
yourselves but if we went completely
digital we might go the matryoshka route
oh if we decided we did not want our
civilization spot or entire galaxy
potentially making new threatening
civilizations to those
us back home then you might go to the
boss route where you're just importing
matter in instead of colonizing our ward
but by knowledge I would think that you
would see a lot more of individual mega
structures and just cuz you build
something I got butch planet or nacho
sky vein does not mean that even in that
system let alone other systems you
wouldn't have other mega structures in
place that were much more modest I say
your default Dyson swarm should probably
feature almost all of these components
small shell wards that will mass base
gravity lots of spinning habitats lots
of computation lots of laser proportion
things like the Nyko Dyson beam and of
course they all had the feature of
ministry catalyst or built-ins done and
if your TAS building though you might go
to a different style probably not the
soul system itself because that's that's
everybody's home well you go colonize an
individual source system nobody's using
right now and turn that into a
mascarpone or Smallville porch planet
again when we say bush planet that
doesn't necessary mean it has to be one
of the ones got many billions of solar
masses that we stopped that office about
them say a million solar masses so and
that is something you could actually do
many place many times over inside the
galaxy question I don't know if this is
dress for but I would like to hear an
inform non-political take on the US
space force idea Trump is spoken about
you know space force comes up a lot and
I really do wish people would de
politicize that the the original set up
we had in the in the United States
specifically was there was an army and a
navy and there was a marine branch to
the Navy that still cut any part of them
and then we have a Coast Guard that
popped up two separate branches that pop
up because they are better at addressing
things and because the people in those
aren't in fear that their priorities are
not being as well handled by the
officers they'll have more seats than
inside that branch we have that with the
Air Force Fort Sill why would a basic
training no sir that used to be where
the Air Force was out of when it was
partly army and that broke off into its
own separate command the Air Force has
been covering most of our actual
space-based stuff for a long time
because they were best suited to were
compared to the Army or the Navy by and
large
but a lot of folks win Space Command
which is an existing structure or some
of the other space-based units whether
it's radar to space or satellite control
things like that often do not feel that
they are priorities or they are
structural match up well with something
like the Air Force so we've been talking
about doing one that was separate for a
long time and my only objection dies I
really don't like to make new branches
of the military that all beneath
division strength in terms of like for
division strength the 20,000 or so
people and often when people want to
break away of that they like maybe you
know brigades trying to like most one
Corps and I do tend to feel like you're
gonna be a branch the military you
should have like a hundred thousand plus
people in that branch but otherwise I
don't think you should be a sub banished
because you know again you can make few
little chili my own area there you know
has more people in it and they could
easily make an upset planche the
military for that but that's just an
administrative thing are we going to
eventually need a separate Space Command
though it was the question and the
answer that is yes you're going to need
a branch the military that is focused
strictly on space-based defense cases
and concerns like an asteroid thing and
did that respect this is just but it's
not happy it's been being talked about
there's all these reagan to be sure but
bush one into Clinton President Obama
and President Trump have all discussed
it and this just when it went over the
line decide to get looked at more
seriously I don't think it's really a
political topic at all to be honest
[Music]
would space-based solar power this from
mjk other side this from voting and
would space-based solar power for you
sound or still be useful with
commercially viable fusion some of these
questions you'd be repeating let me
scroll down for though i think you this
was jumped over
normally we go to a break to sort that
out but I forgot to pre-record something
so we're actually going through the full
hour this time out from my ask or if
you're able to contact aliens after
how's your with the question after how
it should be day been etc what were they
forcing you to ask okay let me rephrase
that if we talk to aliens after we ask
them how you doing won't be the force
thing you would ask
hmm that's a tricky one I'll be talking
to us an English rods big one because we
are looking for is where are they
deceiving you or where are they confused
you're not really in this is not the
time to be asking them things like how
does fusion walk or how to you know how
do we do walk travel the first thing
you're trying to establish but their
motivations out towards you you are say
they're going to lie to you or if
they're going to give you information
freely so you know if you're asking you
know can you give us the blueprints for
fusion while you'd love to have those
blueprints what you're really asking is
are you gonna share your technology with
us freely well are you going to charge
us in some fashion or you plan to invade
us so any questions you're asking need
to be kind of detailed around things
like that for instance if they send us a
big lexicon of how their language walk
sense not know is the first question I'm
going to be asking myself is why aren't
they speaking in English short while
they speak in another or thumb because
they should know what it is already
and it's you know you're trying to find
out are they trying to keep it secret
from you that they know how to speak
your language or they really insist on
using their language for some reason and
if so why what does that imply so
there's a second layer of that because
in many ways what you're doing is a
diplomatic session and tailgatin a
conversation josh pillock asks how long
do you think will be until we become a
type one civilization you know it's
really bad to to look at the card shove
scale as a way of measuring
civilizations Caro Sheff did not mean it
that way that's a way of detecting
things astronomically it's not a good
measurement what it's telling you is how
much power they use we use more power
than our ancestors did but not by much
especially considering all the increases
in population you're much more efficient
with it but you also don't really know
how advanced the civilization is by
their population size just that you know
in general it ought to be growing if
they've got resource and Technology that
permit more than to exist as to when we
would be reaching that level of power
probably not this century but you never
know when somebody we just want to have
a need for it you know you you you know
if you can generate a ton of power you
have to have
some actual use for it to be using it to
be going to the effort of making that
much power generation so it would take
you a while to build up needing that
much energy unless again say some events
an easy way make kugelblitz black holes
you're charging up as battery is then
you might go all the way to a k2
civilization just set a couple of
centuries as you produce Neos and
collect those as fast you can
so you can store that energy but k1 in
the sense that you can monopolist I
would tend to be thinking 25th century
kind of time zones they although before
the role at or because you're looking at
a population for trillion and I don't
really see our population growth rates
decreasing or increasing that much from
what they are now because they were
there basically start on to is
essentially a technological level of
choosing when you're going to have kids
people can start having them ladle
they're probably ought to keep having
them later as we make improvements to
medical technologies for fertility but
you don't have as many accidental
pregnancies so people are having timed
bullets to when they want and that is
probably not gonna was on a very high
growth rate and it does take a lot to
get up to a trillion people which is
essentially when you had a k1 there's no
reason to be at k1 into as a power
output until you're getting pretty close
to about a trillion people question
again from my a school would synchronous
sections of space elevators
geosynchronous sections of space levels
become massive shipyard stocks trade
ports solar farms and habitats given
time that would be if you have space
elevators you would expect any kinds of
industry or infrastructure to stop going
up around wherever they actually in
doubt in space
non-si at the Geo's geostationary
locations that there might be fourth up
because again the elevators keep going
to a counterweight at some point and you
might put a lot of your stuff there
because your counter weights very
massive and it might as well be
productive so I'm still just a big
asteroids you fish there you might want
to have a big industrial complex or fuel
depot there David Dennis Andre shout out
from Romania a quick question about
nuclear reactors do you believe the heat
can be used to melt the ice on an icy
satellite at the same time produce
powerful underwater colony social
whenever you're doing power generation
you have a lot of heat left over from it
that's actually one of the appeals of
power satellites even if you have
something like fusion is you can just
beam down the microwaves and vote them
at about 80% 90% efficiency to
electricity well there's the fusion
reactor you Pabna be looking at 20 to
30% maybe 40% like a lot of new ground
based reactors have and the rest comes
off as waste heat waste heat is always a
problem for us here on earth but it's
not on an icy moon though it's handy you
use it to warm place up to melt ice if
you want to go check out what's
underneath you OPA you can drill through
10 kilometers rise so you can send a big
having video active power that will just
melt its way down the tether line it so
yeah you could definitely make power
anyway mr. Van Cleve asks how do we turn
digital copies of animals DNA to actual
living animal for colonization we often
talk about stowing DNA for these trips
and I do tend to use DNA as a bit of a
blanket tone for all the stuff involved
in that there are other things they're
involved besides your DNA and actually
recreating a creature you know there's a
lot of enzymes we have was like a
million different species of bacteria no
guts alone then you need to make sure
you're having for that not to mention
there's a lot things were involved in
the reproduction of a cell that are not
specific to your DNA you would have to
ask a biologist for service and how we
do that theoretically I can tell you
it's physically possible but the method
for doing that that's a biologists
question Coupole asks what is your
favorite timeline for interstellar
colonization
I've actually been confusing my Mars or
the people asking questions what is your
portion or timeline for interstellar
colonization where we'll go
megastructures years not used I would be
surprised if we ended the next century
the 22nd century without having sent
something in interstellar space and I
don't mean like moisture or pioneer or
something going to 1% of speed applied
in that kind of range but I would not
really expect us to do much colonization
until it's gotten quite cheap you know
you would probably try for something
like Proxima Centauri just to see you
can do it but before that so I tend to
think that you would probably see very
little international colonization just a
few fewer projects you couldn't like
McMurdo you know you know
for the next few centuries and after
that as real estate gets be more used up
as we move towards a sort of a prototype
in here in this system you start having
people talking about putting together
very large expeditions to empty solar
systems and I don't think that the
limitation on that is will gonna be
technology though you obviously have to
get a certain amount of technology and
that bit of technology can make it
easier and easier if you're more of it
but I think it's more gonna be driven by
population increase you know and then
and how much people want for themselves
- if your idea is to have a whole
asteroid on your soul or to yourself
then you probably already see a much
faster expansion or if you're breeding
like crazy - so it's just gonna depend
on how we expand it's so and in case
like that you can tell it's gonna happen
at some point just cuz all it takes is a
little bit of growth but you don't know
if that's gonna happen you know a couple
hundred years or might take ten thousand
years it's small by astronomical
timelines but pretty big by human
history timelines Alastair Sinha SAS not
sure of weapon is weaponization of space
colonies are Gundam was ascribed but how
viable would a colony be ecology as in
wmb and algae you do not drop it on your
cylinder on a planet to cause damage
people forget when something's in orbit
it's moving it's it's not hanging there
it's moving around now an orbital thing
is but this would just follow down and
like like a power line falling down it's
not cause tons of damage if something's
already in the planet to make it fall
down on the planet and you have to push
on hard enough that it's like you're
going to at least get into the
atmosphere stop boring you up and if
it's just skimming things this is a very
thin wide so annoying you could easily
shoot it well it was decaying in it's
all of it so that it broke up into a
bunch of pieces and boned up and things
that don't burn up might be hitting like
terminal velocity because it's mostly
bunch of flat plates it's thin metal
sheets and I'll say it would be a you
know something we could just have happen
and one causing damage but things
dropping out of orbit and hitting the
earth is really not a good approach to
causing damage compared to just using
those weapons that you used to shoot the
place in the first place apex Tyrannis s
Isaac what do you think about the fully
reusable 100 ton -
Leo stays to spaceship that SpaceX is
building and testing in Texas right now
with everything with SpaceX I always
like to prognosticate on it's a year
after what happens because when they
force came out I do not think they were
going to do very well I I like Elon Musk
I like a lot of his ideas but I tend to
always be a little bit naturally
skeptical about a lot of the early
privatization of space it's just small
those growing up in the post Apollo we
are you always a little bit cynical even
even I get kind of cynical about it so I
love being proved wrong but I always
tend to hedge this into go side so I
wish it well and he's got a proven track
record of doing very well on spaceflight
so I think that's not really one of
those things where as I wish in a pray
I'll just you know we'll see how it goes
I think it's got good as its being
successful David Evans asks do you
believe that ultimately all high order
intelligence would have to be
non-biological based because of
limitations sign answers I always feel
like we're going in the wrong direction
we try to talk about something being
mechanical horses biological you have a
substrate your minds on it doesn't
really matter what that is Hunter was my
consciousness so I'm gonna walk for the
best one that works for me for what I'm
doing there might be metal that might be
flash I probably is not gonna be flash
though but you could build big or you
know you get a time like we were talking
it's actually a book with a month form
for February House of Suns they give an
example of a biology based super
intelligence where the guys just kept
getting bigger as time went on and you
actually got being from the Ender's Game
series that's a similar case they
towards do a giant I mean when you're
working in a you know low gravity you
can get away or some very large bodies
potentially so it slows down the rate at
which you're connecting things but when
you're making a bigger brain you're
getting more prasi and just happen
slower individually so you could
potentially get piece speed up there and
you also have to assume the NSA going
all in on something like that you could
have just the connections the synapses
you might replace those with
superconductors that just sent a signal
instantly still using organic template
but now that's instant from point A to
point B and if you're going at the speed
of life for sign apses you could take a
plane the size they are now and expect
out the size this planet and it would
actually have the exact same speed
that's that scale difference they are
hmm clock me duck we as a fellow will hi
when do you foresee any possible future
technologies could get cities in Ohio to
actually put plows on the road white H
with snow falls yeah for everyone who
was in Ohio or this general area of the
world right now we we did just get
whacked with snow very bad I got I got 9
inches on the back purl tried to get
knocked off soon and I can't wait to
summertime when I can actually use my
deck because I built it late in the year
so I barely got to use it yet I don't
really see a lot of good ways to apply
easy technological fixes to things like
roads and plows I sometimes think the
easiest method might be just to actually
don't move or with with vents in them to
help with the air pressure that might
cut down a lot of weather damage we do
this with the Ashtabula Ohio it's
actually one things we're very proud of
in my County is all covered bridges and
they look very pretty they're big wooden
bridges over them but we actually saved
money on them at least a little bit
because we'd have to maintain them as
much because there's a big covered
bridge did not get a lot of rain and
snow on them and of course we use them
as tourist traps too but I think that I
don't want the underground roads because
that's very expensive but potentially
covered or pavilion roads might be a
thing to be looking at down the road
certainly I'd rather put solar panels on
a pavilion overload and down on a road
is some folks who suggested putting
solar panels on roads this strikes me as
a bad idea at least with corn solar
technology I do wish you would stop
snowing here though at the moment
question do you think the next century
or two soldiers will tend to use regular
bullet guns railguns lasers or something
else chemical propellants right now I'll
pretty much the only approach can really
use for something that we think of as a
life all garden if somebody it's way
better with batteries you might be able
get something like a railgun but I don't
see that Happiny time soon
probably more likely small guns where
that bullet had a little feels like a
micro missile and had some propellant or
a controller inside it I've got about 10
minutes left so let's see how many more
questions we can get to Willie dass if
we can upload a brain into multiple
bodies do you don't you think that
civilization will reject oval
representing one person's opinion okay
that was going back to you
make a copy of yourself and if I make a
copy of myself can I copy vote and of
course that's problematic because I
would say like if I just made a copy
myself today and walk through the polls
have voted that would seem like we
really should only get one vote but if I
make a copy of myself ten years back
who's got a friend over his own life
then I would say that person gets to
have two votes
but there's mothers for samples where we
don't have a good press or not it in
terms of what we're doing if you're
making kind of legalistic decision so
it's a good idea but stop talking about
it sooner than later and yeah marry
issue if somebody comes by and makes a
million copies of themselves there's
million all get to vote and you know how
do you maintain those as a society can
you just tell something you can't make a
million copy of yourselves you know we
usually don't have such a problem with
overpopulation comes a premium you'd say
you stop having kids because people can
only have so many kids in a lifetime you
got a cloning machine in your garage
though you can ramp it up rather quickly
a question from Aaron how do you
maintain your optimism for the future
despite all the evidence for the
contrary I think that's probably the the
false economy and there is I don't
really see a lot of evidence for a bad
future I'm not that old
in fact I notice my Wikipedia page as
meaningless in 1980 was when I was born
I was born in 1980 but they're helping
me lie about my age they're um but just
in my lifetime I've seen so much
progress not just technologically but in
so many areas there you know there's so
many things that and I won't get into
the specifics of that because the
political and controversial stuff we
avoid but you know I think just in
general human rights across the planet
prosperity across planets um things like
literacy rates and you know the
starvation rates these are all positive
indicators and that's one that in
generation or two and there's nothing if
you'd like the Green Revolution from you
know just a generation before that so no
it's not very hard for me maintain
optimism about the future and I said I
don't think it's a naivete about the
world that's we can be cynical about
individual people's motives or you know
saying there's not gonna be a utopia but
by and large things have continued to
improve fairly regular it's like the
stock market it mostly goes up over time
but
it bounces a bit Samoyed asks what do
you think about using the engineering
feats as a method of categorizing that
wasn't civilization
I don't think technology is a good way
to be saying olio that the coercive
scale is not a good way to measure
civilizations
I don't think technology is a
particularly good way to measure what
evil your problem not gonna have any one
system that works too well but I'm gonna
say the technological advancement is a
good way to measure civilization you'd
have a much bigger civilization that was
less technologically advanced for
instance but that would still be
ignoring that you know primitive
primitive is not stupid and that's
that's a problem that people make
sometimes of that is you know the level
of technology and science that we have
available to us does not necessary speak
to all ethical character or advancement
on things but technology as measurements
you can redo periods like that I'd say
the steel age the steely or I own age
Copple new industrial these all kind of
technological measurements but we use
these as measurements when we only have
all kiya logical evidence of those
civilizations when we have periods that
we have actual history of we generally
talk about the cultural that was they oh
they you know they did various dynasties
or civilizations that were going on
David major ass would it be more wise to
start terraforming Mars right now if
humans want to go live there in the
future and what are the limitations of
this I wouldn't see any reason to stop
terraforming Marv was lastly anytime in
this century unless we get really good
at it it's that takes a lot of effort
resources and you know it's a long
process so as was Napoleon said is if
you want to have the soldiers mulching
underneath the shade you need to start
fighting the trees today not tomorrow
but the sooner we get started at the
metal but you gotta wait till there's
actually a good reason to be investing
this kind of resourcing because there
are other things we can do with those
resources in the short term for for
space expansion alone let alone for
other issues landed and we bass are you
worried we may be species trapped on
Earth by Kessler syndrome now I think we
talked about that one although I really
don't see it as a threat to us any sort
of civilization destroying sense
something that might just cause problems
temporarily
question can we build orbital space
habitats by 2040 I don't think that we
will build anything much bigger than a
relatively small rotating habitat before
then but we'll see something potentially
is because uh katana one the one that we
often show on the channel that I in and
made you could potentially feel
something that as early as 2040 but I
would tend to think they'd say I'm a
little bit more skeptical about gains
and like that up there as soon as 2040
our house a hundred asks what are your
thoughts about the reaaaaally ascribed
on the expanse series and books those
are two very different um different
series in some ways they both great
though I'd say that with the exception
of the hand ways they put in there
there's one more accurate series in
terms of looking at things it's cast
flawless of course but I definitely
recommend it's a good piece of
relatively hard science fiction and then
stiffened ass thank you for answering my
previous question you're very welcome
a friend suggested a way to kick-start
space industry by collapsing a precious
metal asteroid on the moon and mine it
they allowed them on an asteroid the
thought is could you slam something into
the moon and then go mine it they are
and the idea I think would be that it's
not gonna be hovering around the planet
and you can use that to grab ops excess
speed because you can't just tow
something back to than a pit stop
it's still got all that speed involved I
would not want to drop things on the
moon though by large it's only full of
craters already but I don't know that we
want to add anymore I think in most
cases you'd be better off mining it
there we start off and just bring you
how much you wanted or if you really
want all that mass in or ground or just
to bring it back in pieces probably to
to off and I think there's gonna be our
last question for the day Michael asks
what are the best suggestions for
recording Corner bands thoughts and
inventions for tomorrow's history most
mass media is rather perishable and thus
unsuitable as far as I know that's
always a good question because we don't
really build data storage with the
intent of it being really long lasting
because there's always an additional
cost we try to make something studio and
with alcorn digital
George mediums you know every 5-10 years
they are completely outclassed by
something new so why build a whole Drive
that can last for a century when you're
gonna replace it with something cheaper
and metal in a couple of years we also
see a bit of a slowdown on that
especially I'm a courting media I mean
we got the SSD drives now but HDD do
ives have not really improved that much
from the basic plateau design in the
last decade I mean there's been
improvements but not many big ones and
there's also that speed of access issue
that has to do with commercial user data
if you just want to store data you don't
want to do at the atomic scale because
you're losing a bit every time even a
particle comes in a radioactive particle
comes in a traces a bit I would say
poppy if you really want to store data
you probably use really big platinum or
iridium plates that you were coughing
you know we're done in sections the data
aren't you - of course but relatively
large bits you know released several
nanometers crossed each and that would
probably be the way I would think of
doing that but that would be a question
I would ask somebody who's more into the
hard way of computers I have never
really looked in that too much but there
you know you can maybe inscribe and add
a lone i''m ablai always had the
originally written in Crystal sheets and
doing these no tiny sheets they could
store you know millions of pages and
stacked this high on and they were
really long-lasting and obviously has
something we would like to have though
in more digital format and of course
that's question restoring data for
really long time you want to make sure
that whoever was accessing it later on
doesn't really need a lot of specific
knowledge and technology to you know to
figure out what it is you've got a
civilization and do some sheet of metal
and they don't really realise that it's
covered in terabytes of data so like wow
this is cool let's nail it to a wall
somewhere or you know let's melt this
down because it's cheap platinum so it's
not just a question of storing your
adorability but also of visibility
making sure it's still going to be there
that's not buried underneath something
alright so that was where we're gonna go
ahead and close out for today again Oh
upcoming episode this week is going to
be space prison colonies be a little on
the sci-fi side as we examine that kind
of concept then we might have another
episode in between but then January 30
forced is going to be
a discussion of panspermia and the Fermi
paradox and then we'll get into the
February schedule and we will probably
have another one of these with a guest
on that I want to get the guest will be
for some time mid next month and will
give you details on that as we get up to
it and then hopefully we'll which one to
the end of the month system after that
anyway thank you for joining me today
and I know we didn't get in everyone's
questions I do read them afterwards I
just can't keep track them all while
alive so thank you for asking questions
there were some very good questions
today and we will see you Thursday
