and let's get started
I was really fast and true there
I'll give it a second
on the fifth day of summer my children
have eaten three ice cream cones 12
slices of pizza two bananas 26 juice
boxes 14 string cheeses six cartons of
strawberries eight pools of cereal three
cake pops and a half a watermelon but
they are still hungry
that's from we are teachers
we're in the fifth week of Summer and I
think our kids have consumed a lot more
than that starting out for the usual
technical difficulties a mouse that
doesn't want to welcome a live stream
that started too quickly so good
afternoon everybody and welcome to our
first live stream that's been on time uh
for what three months now we had the um
had the delay we had to do for April and
then we had the May one that got
canceled so welcome away to our 55th
live stream uh q a session we'll be
taking your questions in just a moment
please get them in the moderators and
they'll get relayed on to my wife who
will then be very glad to pass them on
as usual I am joined today by my
beautiful co-host and wife Sarah fellow
author so if you got any questions to
start off with we do uh actually the
first one is a super chat from Dara
cloak hello Isaac do you think humans
are special and that we are the only
intelligent civilization in the
observable universe
I think there's a lot of assumption that
we actually qualify as an intelligent
civilization some days I'm not so sure
but uh I think it's it's possible that
we would be in the absorbable Universe I
don't like to use token Universe pure
indicates like that just because you
stop being outside the zone of where we
can even look at it's gets kind of
guesswork but like I feel we've put
forward a pretty strong case that
there's at least a 50 50 chance there's
nobody within oh Galactic super cluster
area and at that point in time you're
already looking at about a quintillion
stars or 10 to 15 no sorry 10 to the
eight yeah 10 to 18 stars at that point
in time so if you were to push that out
to 10 billion light year instead of one
billion light year radius another three
owners of manage usually going from
every plant's got life as one option
would be one and one uh it's up to one
in 10 the 18th kicking it up to 10 to 24
doesn't really seem like we it's still a
factor of a thousand but it doesn't see
that big of a deal at that point in time
going from 10 to 18 to 10 or 21.
um assuming we qualify as intelligent
species issues I think there's a pretty
decent chance it is actually just us and
the Hubble volume but I'd still say to
help you can really push for and say
evidence-wise is that you can make a
good case there's nobody within a
supercluster of us
the next question is from Timothy Kuiper
if the flow of time is not universally
constant how can astronomers be sure
that distant galaxies are rotating too
fast or perhaps it's just our perception
viewed from a different space or time
that's actually quite possible one of
the issues we have is like we interpret
the universe as expanding and that's one
answer but the other possibility of
course is just that the everything in
the universe is shrinking I saw another
one recently that was trying to give
reasons why I might have uh no dark
mental energy because of modified
Newtonian Dynamics again where light
gets old fast oral gravity gets weaker
and those have not been conclusively
absolutely ruled out I feel like the
bullet cluster from was a 2006 pushed
really hard against that but there's
still room to be uncertain about that
sort of thing
um
the thing about we looking at Galaxy
it's very far away is you're looking at
being very red shifted and of course the
the part of it that's 20 away from you
is going to be even more redshifted than
the parts that's trained towards you as
a disc right probably going this way if
I was going that way it's doing a
different speed it's pretty fast speed
too like all galaxies generally rotating
on the hundreds of kilometers per second
rate well we were at I believe it's like
260 or something like that and that's
far faster than anything we've sent to
space right relatively speaking of
course that's how fast I think we're
doing is going to but we're not adding
that speed so that's a lot of shift
value when you think if you found a
Galaxy that was really off in terms of
that
yeah but they're not they're about where
they should be of course they're about
what they should be when we do all these
adjustment factors on them so if
something about our overall you know
template is wrong that that could
actually pop into every single one but
it seems like that would be quite an
awful lot of mistakes to only getting
caught to explain at this point
imaginationship asks why do you believe
faster than light to be impossible when
we don't have a theory of quantum
gravity when we don't have a theory
according well
um the thing is there's nothing about
Quantum or about uh about relativity
that would normally have anything to do
with FTL I think that the thing is
relatively says you can't do faster than
light travel but you could hypertherapy
start off fashion lights with like
something like attack you on Quantum
tells you that you can have spooky
action distance only that doesn't seem
to actually pass any real data law it's
just one thing is being separed
um
I'll give you an example let's say that
there was only a very short distance in
four dimensions that that things could
travel through and that every object had
one extra Dimension the right angle not
time just one other dimension at the
right angle and all the others and so
you got a particle here and a particle
here that are separated by huge amounts
of space in 3D but just like with a
piece of paper on the same space but
they're really close you have that
spooky action across that very quickly
without violating relativity for
instance
um we don't know what caused that spooky
action distance we don't really know
anything about what causes anything with
Quantum uh however there's nothing in
Quantum that has given us any reason to
think that we can actually transmit
information faster and speed of light
and this is the key thing we call it the
speed of light because that's the first
thing we measure at that speed there's
nothing but it's not the speed of light
it's the speed of causality and time and
effect right so gravity moves that speed
information can move no faster than that
light can move slower than that uh
what's more uh things can't move faster
than the speed of light the almost
everything in the universe is moving
away from us faster than the speed of
light that's that's how that works out
with that Hubble expansion you get out
past 13 billion light years uh and
things that will be way less faster than
that
um information cannot go faster than
that though and think about spooky
action distance is it sends no
information except the trivial one of I
exist in this state oh I exist in this
one that that's what sentence you can't
send anything else with that and you
can't determine the one to be the other
it's still writing them so that's not
sending information faster than the
speed of light and that's the key thing
there's all these tricks that they might
let you go and send a group of like way
Packers faster speed of light a set of
galaxies faster speed light they're not
sending information faster speed of
light and if you can't do that you can't
travel fast in light and you can't send
Communications faster line not the way
we want to that's the thing that doesn't
get altered by spooky action distance
and that's why we tend to be kind of
pessimistic about finding anything that
could allow that even with that seeming
exception point and the fact that
everything's moving way faster than
speed of light except this nearby value
of space would seem to be you know
confusing too but again it's not the
information that's traveling it's just
those objects and that doesn't matter
you just say anything with a little
Shadow dot unlike models you put a
little dot here over the laser pointer
yeah you can move over here and you can
whip that laser point around so mood the
dot faster speeds line across the
surface but no information traveled
foreign
this one is do you believe that NASA
should have a presence in low earth
orbit or that NASA should hand over the
low earth orbit to private companies
um I mean I don't think that any
government would voluntarily sacrifice
ability to have a presence in in low
orbit
um and I I think that this question
who's actually authorizing it but the
question of does NASA need to be doing
too much space you know information
stuff up in a little bit well the Space
Station's a little bit
um a lot of stuff we want to do there is
but it's not really a good place for
telescopes anymore a lot of what NASA
would want to do really doesn't involve
the woman that's that's true enough Noah
for instance uh whether Civil Wars they
have much more reason why stuff they are
same for defense because they're looking
down at the planets
um but I wouldn't know why why NASA
would want to not have a Leo presidency
more just that it has it has less value
to them than it has to other people per
se but there's a lot of Leo if we talk
about how clever the Orbit's gonna
remember this is the size of a whole
planet and then some it is bigger than
the surface of our planet in the world
but and there are multiple levels to it
so that's a lot of room even for as fast
these things move there's a lot of room
to put stuff that I'm only into each
other
oh
the next question is from com killer now
that scientists have grown quote-unquote
computers from human and rat neurons
able to play Pong or a flight Sim is
there any advantage to using bio
computers like the Martian mechanus
other than novelty uh well the mechanic
I'm assuming you talk about 40K there uh
and the mechanicum is is using those
under the rule of cool they take like
lobotomized humans and put computer
chips in their head so they're not
technically AI That's that's what
happens they are in that setting they
had the AI Rebellion uh you know Dune
style like a lot of things if I'm 40K
and uh that's how they get around it
because it looks awesome the jam wives
on people's heads for Miniatures but uh
they just grow brain matter and connect
it with wires or they take a clone or a
prisoner and do that to them it's quite
a bleak setting
um I don't need that would ever be
terribly advantageous in a situation
like that but
bio computers have the advantage they're
probably more comfortable people to use
something like
um we talk about bringing people you
know chips on people's heads for this or
that I think a lot of people find it
much more comfortable to have a a chunk
of their DNA used to grow neurons and
they are patterned then we could insult
in their head that was supposed to be
the uh quick calculator chip as well as
opposed to having a chip one there for
my part I don't post either I kill one
way or another whatever works and is
less likely Cosby uh physical ailment
but I think for a lot of people that
biological computer might be a nicer one
to have but I mean Gia kale without the
AI that kills you is is running on
Silicon or or vacuum tubes or um neurons
I don't think it makes that much of a
difference
so another question here since the
surface of a planet is relatively
fragile would it be easier to quote just
turn its patent star into a Chicago
Thruster to toe the planet where you
want it rather than to move the planet
directly pad install
it says yes that's what it says
p-a-t-e-n-t pattern probably it's
probably pale and soul
so
um
uh
it's kind of a hard one I think if you
try and move a planet by itself a large
distance away from its stall you're
gonna have to come up with an entire
shooting mechanism to protected from
Interstellar radiation especially when
it starts getting up to speed you know
start a lot of dust and gas
um and so you're gonna end up putting a
shell around the planet anyway but you
gotta do that with a Chicago cluster
realistically
if you plan to go very fast then the bow
shock wave that star has from that solar
wind and magnetosphere is not going to
clear your volume so you're still going
to get bugs on the windshield only in
this case the bugs on your windshield at
all you know rocks though moving at
relativistic velocity like nuclear bombs
hitting your atmosphere so that could be
problematic
um yeah as ever since I say could be
problematic because I don't know that
actually matter if you have the
occasional small uh nuclear bomb that
wasn't actually full of fissile material
was slamming into your atmosphere
um
I think that it's always going to be
easier to move a plant a stall but the
nice thing is that a star provides the
fuel to move itself whereas a planet
does not uh unless you were using
Institute of Nevada Fusion plant so or
black hole generator same difference
then
um
I think that would be the big one though
is it's almost always gonna be some way
to contrive it to be easier to just send
the planet
floor horbeck is asking do you think the
Schrodinger equation has to be replaced
if we want to combine quantum mechanics
and general relativity together since
superposition seems to be the culprit
hmm
um
possibly I think the thing is
when we were talking yeah
back in the day we had the electric
force we had the mechanical force we had
the electrochemical forces we had the
magnetic force we had weak nuclear we
had strong nuclear and we started to be
able to unify some of these
and then to a surprise we found a way to
probably unify the strong nuclear force
with the weak and electromagnetic we can
definitely do the electromagnetic and
the electro weak
um and we say well then we could surely
you know add gravity in there too we can
unify that I tend to feel like Grand
unified theories and this this isn't
three grand unified in this case can be
problematic because you're assuming that
these will actually flow together in
some easy mode if you just keep poking
at them uh the same to me often seems to
apply to something like quantum gravity
versus
um you know voltravistical macroscopic
scale things I do not know that we
should be assuming that there is some
behind the scenes single one that works
there
um and these are both just emerging
properties with that either everything
at the relativistic level is somehow an
emotional property of quantum even
though it doesn't seem to work that way
or that both are emerging from something
below it could be I mean it could be
really fall down the tree too but
um they could just be completely
separate things and you just don't see
the effect of one at the other scale
um but I don't think that I mean same as
you can't you can't use Newton's
equations to cover volatility without
having to add that Factor on there I
don't think you could ever have either
one working at the other scale without
some additional Factor as actually you
can actually pull that off either
um
you should mute your notifications
because they are coming through so every
time someone's leaving us a question
here it's dinging on the line yeah thank
you
um while you're doing that Here's a
thought from Casper lidigard hi YouTube
what is the best method to melt a tunnel
of sorts through the ice of the Moon
Europa and regards from Copenhagen
Denmark
and Kath I think I said is the
gentleman's name already Casper lidigard
so the easiest way right now if we had
to do something right now I would say
would probably be to take a large sample
of a RTG a radioactive isotope use that
to pile the spacecraft and gets there
and then just have the power plant melt
down through the eyes
um you could potentially have like
something just spread out on top anchor
itself in there and then dropped as
tethers it melts its way through
um and assuming you do that wide enough
you shouldn't have problems just
collapsing back down because the gravity
is very low
um
level striking is the easiest way to
just make sure you got that done because
there's no mechanisms to really break
there other than possibly the thing up
top which might be splitting it down but
they eat that hot too uh that would be
how I would do it it's not gonna be the
fastest way and it's probably not the
most economical because that'd be a lot
of isotope but at that scale you can see
how it's going to cost the thing out
there I don't think that'd be the big
factor on stopping it either a lot of
plutonium one ton of plutonium let's go
with that
I think yours is still giving
notifications it is seeming to be doing
that yeah I'm not sure while you're
looking at that Albert Jackson says hi
Isaac and Sarah it's great to be back I
just finished Revelation space
um what happened there are we still on
we are definitely still alive okay hi
Isaac and Sarah it's great to be back I
just finished Revelation space a few
weeks ago so thank you so much for
mentioning it years ago I have been
asking questions on here for four years
thank you for giving great answers all
the time and I really appreciate it
truly I do
I I heard a question about Revelation
space but then no no it was a comment oh
it's a great book series let's see if I
can what happened uh we seem to be
having one of the models going down
one's back up the other's back up all
right let's assume we're actually live
in woking again there we go
okay
all right so I think this is the problem
when you do these live streams exactly
one time a month and then skip them
occasionally is is there's always some
minor technical glitch that just
completely throws the
so so if there was a lot of background
noise as I was reading the comment there
from Albert
um it's because we have this little
remote control oh yeah for the TV but it
don't do it it operates the same
frequency there's a big air filter over
there like a turbo one for when I was a
smoker seen by the other model that's on
the side over there for us both to see
the stream through and the one where
when you hit the power button on the
television which for some reason Frozen
it will put the air filter on maximum
it sounds like we're getting ready to
take off and I highly recommend that
model for anyone who is a chain smoker
still because that thing could actually
clear the room when I was smoking
let me retry Albert's uh post he had a
lot of great comments and I I want
people to catch it so he said that he
just finished Revelation space a few
weeks ago and he thanks you for
mentioning it years ago on the Stream
he also has been asking questions for
four years it has been a while it's been
the fourth fourth anniversary he's been
honest it's like the original live
stream he says thanks you for giving
great answers all the time I really
appreciate it truly I do here's to
another four and he has two questions
for us today
one how do you come up with all those
amazing ideas in the Life in 2023
episode they were all so incredibly
creative
and two have you read project Hail Mary
yet and if so what are your thoughts on
it uh Andy Williams a great writer I
think my favorite book by him is still
with emotion but that when I I did like
I did like hero of Mary better than than
Artemis which was a pretty good one too
um but the motion is still my favorite
by him he is a great writer
um
as to how do I come with those ideas uh
I usually try to think about how
something that seems one day is a minor
change wouldn't mess everything up in
somebody's life if it happened either
them or what are their relatives like
what would actually happen if you were
suddenly blind that suddenly changed
your whole life around a lot of these
things will ask yourself is what would
actually happen if you suddenly found
that you were going to live to be 500
years old or could live that old how
does that change your perspective and
you try to think of
you know what's a cool thing that would
happen do you followed up as what's the
most irritating side effect of this yeah
and you say well
now that it was only 500 you're going to
be coming in as a junior partner at some
form and getting promoted when you're
500 because that's how it's going to age
out and similar things would happen like
we used to joke in physics you want to
get 10U on the perception you have to
wait for somebody to to die out
eventually and nobody ever retired and
they've been there till they were 90.
physicists live forever it's just one of
those things that I'm happy about
personally
um but uh you know that's just one of
those effects that we see coming in from
this or that technology same thing for
well now I've got this wonderful thing
that helps me sort stuff so much better
like Chad GPT what's the nice benefits
from that chat GPT well with a little
bit more modification Improvement it's
going to handle a lot of the customer
service issues we have because now you
said the time when I talk to customer
service it's something really easy but
you want to be able to ask the question
as you're hearing it and then the
machine is going to actually give you
some kind of answer and the Temps at the
time it can't it kicks you to somebody
who's actually an expert on it who gets
paid better that's the ideal the
downside of course that being said
something you have an entire sector of
our economy customer service uh that a
lot of people have as an entry level job
or something in college that is no
longer there and so that's kind of how
we look at these things as I just try to
think of something cool about it and
they're trying to think about the most
irritating or aggravating aspect of this
in people's normal lives did you happen
to remember to put in there how
important it's going to be in the first
10 years of life to learn good hygiene
habits so somebody's not like picking up
their socks every day or brushing their
teeth or putting on deodorant can you
imagine having to live with them for 500
years instead of 100 years oh yeah that
would be
so we have little kids seven six and
five years old
yes they are the uh impetus of that
question so I brush my teeth today
it's hard to realize and and this is one
of those things about AI that we learn
is is kind of like when you have kids
too is those things you that you can't
even remember learning because they're
so far back there foundationally and you
have to then explain it to a machine or
to a little kid and they just wanting to
do it
um and there's so many examples that we
just it would be really obvious to you
you would never think someone have a
context and say look at this jigsaw
puzzle and tell me what you see it's a
bunch of Jigsaw bits right everybody say
oh I you know this is the picture of the
jigsaw other people say well see there's
two different images here it's not done
yet over here we see a dinosaur over
here we see a tree and if I was looking
at one part sees a completely different
picture they don't realize there's one
big cheeks are and you ask the AI what
do you see it says I see a gigantic mass
of fibrous cables connected together of
Australian homogeneous amount there's a
bunch of carbon hydrogen and oxygen
there
say are you describing the people it's
made out of aren't you
yes because you didn't tell him what he
wants to see okay that's what it saw
well I I see a lot of infrared coming
off this paper so next question
uh we have a 20 Super Chat from Freedom
fiend thank you recently a seemingly
incredible military figure claimed that
the U.S is hiding alien craft and bodies
from the public and is picking up
Traction in Congress do you think it's
going somewhere or is it just hot air
um I mean you can't say it's hot air
until someone's really had a chance to
look at it this is the important thing
to move from a skeptic angle on this
stuff is it's not our job as as and I'm
assuming if you're on the skeptic side
of these things not our job to
immediately say something is not true
just because it the other ones won't
um 99 phenomena being XY does not mean
that the LL next one 100 isn't or is and
there's also the issue of credibility is
like I'm exposited I have tons of
friends who acts military uh someone who
are honest some of them all not and
others are also very easy to see by time
or memory if I'm all right with this guy
he is saying that he has evidence of
proof that other people had told him
that this was the case that people had
told him indicate they had this and I
can't really speak to that I'm waiting
to let other people kind of pick that
apart because that's not my interest
right if it turns out that there's
validity to it that there's always be
investigated more if not then it doesn't
the the other aspect of that also
remember is we say from Sagan
extraordinary claims require
extraordinary evidence and and I love
Sagan but everything about that
statement is wrong but the the level of
songs you have is based on the level of
evidence you have extraordinary ones who
defines what's extraordinary are you you
know evidentially or in terms of a claim
the amount of evidence he needs to
present to this should be no more or
less than any other claim and to be
honest with that we ought to assume that
aliens had to visit us and left bodies
behind but I would want to see a pretty
high level to prove that
there's also thing is we're conspiracies
and so on it doesn't necessarily mean
that whatever people have been
conspiring to cover up was actually true
as an example let's say JFK when he got
shot there was all these people who
claim it was it was the FBI it was a CIA
it was Russia it was Cuba it was a mafia
and you could be a member of one of
those organizations and be like oh my
god did we do that and stop covering it
up not realizing your organization had
not done it that sort of thing can
happen so it needs a lot more
investigation but it deserves to be
heard out but it also be heard out
reasonably so you know we we can't just
assume because somebody happens to have
a high credibility level themselves it
isn't lying you know because I don't
think it's very likely you would uh that
we shouldn't rule that out either
um but they're actually right because
you'll be as honest as you want and
still be wrong it has nothing to do with
the person's credibility of their field
Javi Loeb um I respect him he's one of
the best physicists out there and yet at
the same time I completely disagree with
him on uh and what that asteroid the
case that doesn't mean that he's not a
credible Source it just means on that he
and I disagree about what that evidence
says
we have a super chat from someone that
did not provide their name wanting to
know what the Epic soundtrack in
coexistence with aliens at position 1405
was that was accidentally in the video
oh he said yeah
we tried to Shazam it
put that in the comments below or email
that to me in my uh
isaac.author.youtube it's the letter
youtube.gmail.com and I will look that
up for you uh
was it actually accidental well it was
accidental but it's been on on nebula
that way the whole time and because
Debbie does any comment feature and
nobody emailed me to let me know it
didn't Accord me to check that photo so
I just put them all in there that's just
that's just a glitch on my part so
be fun to look at
um Charles Rockefeller says aside from
the potential results being an expanding
domain wall bubble of death what are
your thoughts on natural or artificial
symmetry break causing generation Zone
particles
so yeah I went again because I was
trying to think about what the
background was on that one I bet he is
probably was the music from uh
you're still on the last question yeah
let's go to the next one sorry about
that reread this one yeah Charles
Rockefeller says aside from the
potential result being an expanding
domain wall bubble of death what are
your thoughts on a natural or artificial
symmetry break causing generation Zone
particles
hmm
I'm just going to say that I'm an
insufficient as a cosmologist to answer
that one at this time I'm sorry
there's a couple things to come to mind
on that but I'm a little boy they'll go
they'll more likely be wrong than right
at the moments I'd rather not try to
save them so you can also email me that
one and I will get back to you with an
answer if one that I'm confident is to
horribly Vlog at the very least so
Clash says at what point in the process
of colonizing space with something like
an orbital ring or a launch Loop be
needed one million people in space 10
million 100 Etc I think one million is
probably the figure but it's more about
who's traveling back and forth like
there were a million people on Mars and
only a thousand people came back and
forth each year to each planet then
there's no need for it but if you're
trying to actually move
a million I mean I think I usually say a
million people a day going to space so a
million tons of cargo going data space
once you get to that number you have to
have some of this in place because
otherwise you're talking about doing a
hundred thousand large rocket launches a
day or something like that it's not
going to work
um but uh you could probably start
building a way before that you can
actually make a case of making it when
there's just a thousand launch or
something like that day but I think that
if you're at the million people put a or
a million people in space living there
that's definitely the Zone where you'd
be looking to make making one of those
Phil's Polly says if we live in a
simulation how may it affect our
possibilities to advance and even
discover technology
um
the thing about if we live inside a
simulation is that we have to assume
that the rules that exist here are are
all actually in place to control what
we're seeing so
if I want to have a simulated Universe I
can just do a Brute Force hack to have
no other alien life forms of merge on it
and still have it as a high likelihood
that that it would evolve but stereotype
involves the simulation and crushes it
because it's not a place you want it
that's something you can do in a
simulation but by default we usually
assume a program who's that good doesn't
have to do too many of those kind of um
Bridge hacks that give it away they
might not care to get away too
um but you expect the rules of the
system to be more or less set up to
produce the results that you want as
opposed to using all those Brute Force
hacks but you can't assume that they're
not they are
um the biggest thing about something in
a simulation is you have to assume that
since they don't seem to change it very
often that at least inside all is the
goal is not to change them based on what
we're seeing
um at least do that very rarely of
course they could always just be making
us not noticed when they've had those
changes too
Christian corello thank you for your
Super Chat just because something would
break causality does it really mean that
it can't be broken it's like saying it's
impossible to drop a vase for that
reason
um I mean that's that's
a valid way of looking at in some ways
but the thing is if something's
impossible inside your Universe it
should not be physically possible inside
your Universe to make that happen so
when we say we're not talking about
breaking a glass yeah I can break this
in physical reality very easily but
causality if you can break it then then
you can break it we say you can't break
cause Ali what we're seeing is not
physically possible do that not that's
an undesirable outcome
um I don't know how you would actually
break causality and it depends on what
model of time you're looking at and the
answer is we don't know how time walks
around say x by or Z but I go back in
time to to kill Hitler that's the most
common use of time travel and then I go
and I shoot him and World War II never
happens so it ends earlier or some other
Tyrant gets in there is even worse
whatever the case is now I today no
longer have a motivation to go back and
shoot him because he's already been shot
right uh so I don't travel back in time
and that Loop just doesn't happen
um
we could do the same thing with like
well I'm gonna go back in time and see
this event well now you've gotten back
in time and seen that event uh did you
cause something to happen though that
that's rippled out even from that and
that's that butterfly effect probably
give a time travel too because all I did
was go back in time to look at these
dinosaurs and oops I accidentally
stepped on the moth and and now that
moth wasn't there to be eaten by
something something and as a result the
whole civilization and everything
changed you can't avoid changing time as
an observer at all but you might ask
whether or not be enough to cause you
not to time travel and we have episodes
on that our temporal Paradox episode
discuss that in more detail but if you
can violate kazani and we don't know
that you can't right if you can it tends
to look like almost every time you would
you kind of break the circuits that you
wouldn't do it again in the future and I
think that's part of the issue there but
again we don't know enough about how
time walks to be saying definitively no
you can't do it
the Miami's last capitalist also had a
Super Chat what happened to Gary
googleson after transmitting himself to
the ship oh that's a good question I'm
not sure I should answer that uh since
he's not real and I didn't think beyond
that
um I cannot say for sure I've considered
possibly that he survives that trip oh
that's a philosophy which I always
phrase that whether or not he'd survive
a teleportation transfer as himself is
not something that we can answer in a
known sign chat therefore
we don't know if he survived that trip
however a copy of him and whether that
copy arrived intact and acted like him
and we don't know if that's copy or the
original hymn that we can't answer and I
choose to assume that he did because I
like him as a character and I hate to
stop him out but we should not make that
as Canon because you're supposed to come
waver that episode
with whatever you like that story to be
but if I were to decide in the future
that I want to continue the story of
Emily Gary and Fido on that ship then
the answer would be that yes he did
survive
so
so let's let's go with yes for the happy
Indiana I think Gary did survive and
didn't compromise his his uh
individuality or personhood so I love
happy ending don't you well we all like
happy endings but they they they're less
interesting for the next toy it's like
this is a happy ending well we decided
we want a Trilogy so it's not so happy
after all then you have happy ending
happy ending happy ending well I don't
see any problem with that the worst ones
for me and they make for good stories so
if you're right or ignore this as advice
but the worst ones for me are we are
yeah yo yo Good Guys beat the bad guy
and what that actually it was free up an
even worse bad guy who was somehow being
kept in check by that bad guy so see you
tell me the entire point of the fourth
story was that the heroes screw things
up
and say well it makes for a decent
fiction out of there but yeah now before
we go into hypothesizing about who
you're actually talking about I have a
few uh quick comments here and then we
need to go to our break because it's
time for chocolate it is oh is it okay
um
we have a two dollar Super Chat from
Vincent Cleaver and he just wanted to
comment Isaac and Sarah having issues in
the sfia bat cave
Curtin is Nick uh also a Super Chat
thanks for the faith in humanity that
you've given me and uh he seems to be
expressing a general sentiment for a lot
of folks in the chat today
we also had a super chat from munix and
today's stumped Isaac award goes to
Charles Rockefeller thanks time for a
drink and a snack have a great break
we'll see you in a few if I can read the
mouse
we'll be on break for a couple of
minutes and it's a great time to grab a
drink and a snack and get more questions
or moderators for part two this was our
first live stream since mid-april as we
had to reschedule and eventually cancel
the one for May while I was recovering
from some minor surgery
you've probably noticed the last few
months we've had a lot of image bowls
with some potential episodes and cover
art up
for those curious I'm not sure if that's
a permanent feature of the show but I've
been enjoying putting those together and
giving feedback on what people like to
decide if it's worth making an episode
out of we've done that for years with
episode titles in various forms but
YouTube has finally put a nice system in
place for pulling those so we'll take
the advantage of that all the more so as
various sci-fi art is after my
inspiration for a given episode so it's
nice to share that with the title
you might also have noticed that we've
been experimenting a bit with YouTube
Shorts YouTube has been poking me and
other creators to make them for years
and I figured I might as well try some
short form content that folks might see
and decide that I can expanded
discussion on like a given megastructure
or space Drive summary I can't borrow
those from all scripts to save time but
I would like to make some genuinely new
content for those two brevity is not a
virtue I tend to have in abundance so
it's more of a trial and experiment and
no we are absolutely not switching that
format at the expense of any of our
normal full-length episodes
I always like to experiment with new
options for the channel and have had to
put a lot on hold while we're in the
process of adopting our kids which is
still in progress and has been since
last fall but they're pretty settled in
and Sarah and I have had some time and
attention to spend on other tasks on
that note let me apologize for being a
little less active on our social media
forums during that time and for any
future inner victims should I suddenly
get hyper busy again normally it's one
of the places I fish for episode ideas
and New Concepts too and I want to thank
everyone on those and on our image polls
for helping on brainstorming Concepts
and episode ideas
one of the awesome things about running
this show is how smart and creative the
audience tends to be which not only
helps the channel come with great topics
but at a personal level it is nice to
share chat on these topics I love so
much with other folks who feel the same
and presumably for folks to chat with
each other too
on that note I want to say thanks to
more than the other moderators overall
Reddit Forum it's grown impressively in
activity and size of late due to their
hard work keeping the quality up and
encouraging a friendly and thoughtful
environment people can exchange ideas on
we are always in need of good mods we
don't mind spending some of their free
time helping sfia's various forms be
great places for like-minded folks to
hang out and share their love of Space
Science futurism sci-fi and more
speaking of that if you're Discord
friendly and abused and helping us
moderate our monthly live stream q and
A's shoot me in one of our Discord mods
a message after the show you can find
our Reddit and Discord links along with
all of our other social media like
Facebook in the description of today's
episode or any recent one and they are
all great places to not just discuss
ideas but get questions answered if you
don't want to wait for the live stream
and speaking of that let's get back to
our live stream and more of your
questions
[Music]
thank you
[Music]
always something isn't it
no we won't have any technical
difficulties I just
took long when I was playing through the
microwave to get more coffee so we were
back for part two completely stuck
around for that we are planning to do a
lightning round this afternoon so if you
have any additional questions that you'd
like to get in that are one-liners or
require a one-line answer please feel
free to pop those in I like to try to
Rattle off
8 10 12 of those right at the end to see
if we can stump Isaac although
um commented before the break uh Charles
Rockefeller already got the stump Isaac
award for today so somebody could see if
they could top that
are you ready to jump back in we have a
question from Clash what are your honest
thoughts about spacex's lunar Starship
being used for the Artemis program
um
you know I I think I like the idea
overall
um I want to miss strikes me as I
um I'll be kind of careful here because
I'm gonna either say something that's
not really technically correct or would
offend somebody in there so
um there's a lot of material that still
needs to be filled in about what they're
playing and do with Artemis and until
that is done a lot of the other
detailers can't really be said to be the
best idea or the worst idea of yet I
think that I like the idea of a more
robust Artemis that I've seen thus far
though in terms of it doesn't really
have a lot of iso EU aspects for it they
don't see that well I do a lot of actual
nc2 resource utilization
Jacob Germany says would it eventually
be possible when humans diverge into
countless subspecies for there to be
variants that have heritable cybernetics
either mechanical or even electronic I
think so
um I mean we were just talking about
biocompetos you could make something
like that have DNA so and it doesn't
necessarily have to have DNA to be
biological I suppose but um you
basically had DNA that replicate that
computer and then that just becomes
either a separate set of code like your
RNA is for your mitochondria or some of
the viruses that are in your stomach or
as something that's paired along that
with your own DNA and I think you know
we didn't know what DNA was to about 50
years ago and we have I think put a
little bit too much of Personality onto
it
so well if you've got your DNA it's you
okay that dead skin cell that doesn't
have any DNA and that guy over there he
has almost identical DNA to me he might
even be close and so the cells in my
body don't mutated from other cells at
this point he's not me uh but those gut
bacteria in my stomach they are as much
part of me as the mitochondria which
don't have my DNA either or my blood
cells or my white cells these are just
part of the system that is me so is this
there's no DNA here open my glasses are
very much part of me
um so I I think that you would have
people say well whether it's inheritable
through DNA or its own separate DNA or
just that you inherit the cybernex that
grandpa had because he passed the
laundry where he died you know um I
think it would definitely see a lot of
heredity in these things I think we
could build that in to be self-building
on somebody they're born such as wildest
way and it's appropriate
I I think I'm going to stick this little
one liner in here at the moment we have
a super chat from CR Smith and he says
why is Isaac Arthur the best looking
science tuber and I'm gonna guess that
it has something to do with the DNA you
inherited
wait no I should flatter myself and your
beautiful wife keeping you in order
well no I I would say one that you've
not been looking around on science
YouTube channels
um but uh two
um I never got compliments on any tie
ever wore my entire life and I I
certainly wore them reasonably often
that I didn't win that often she got me
two ties uh not only after we got
married and I I wouldn't wear them
before because I was a little boy they
look silly and I've gotten more time
more compliments on each of those ties
in the in the the maybe a couple dozen
times I've won each one of them that
I've gotten for every other tie I've
worn in my life combined
the more the story is if your wife's got
better tasting you let her dress you I
don't trust you well but you've helped
select the clothes out correct it also
looks better when you match too so very
very before that oh
anyway I would say falling in line with
your last question it's also probably
partially DNA and those new cybernetic
glasses
Isaac bordeau another long time Channel
favorite says I wanted to start an
astronomy class at my high school and I
was wondering what aspects of space and
astronomy you think teenagers would most
enjoy
um good question uh at all old school as
we say doctor back with John back he was
uh all regular t-shirt of a class called
seven ideas that shook the Universe
um and another one that was our
Frontiers astronomy course those are
both uh what we call them ldr was at
school but lone electives basically that
usually went over very well with people
was like that science one and it was
non-eligible based those were really
popular uh so I would definitely
recommend it Brian right under this new
version with Byron Anderson he was all
uh Vice chair when I was going to school
there but he wrote that book so you
should be able to find that on the seven
ideas that shook the universe that was
all material to the high school it was
on the smart side wouldn't have any
problem covering and I'd say that a lot
of the focus that is astronomy but for
astronomy specifically
um there's always the Optics some people
love the Optics some people can't stand
the Optics I've never cared about the
Optics in astronomy um that's one of
those ones where some of the people love
that boat I was Finding boring so you
throw a living but in which be like
talking about Parallax and how we
discard how far away the stars are for
instance that's not a good one some
people will love the constellations uh
some people are more planets more stars
extra plants a good one to discuss too
people tend to find extra plants
fascinating these days
we have a super chat also from Christian
corello house nuclear propulsion similar
or different to the Orion drive and how
can either be improved for more
efficient Interstellar travel if
possible also
hold that thought
also what are your thoughts on nuclear
Sterling engines
okay
um
a line drives are a subset of nuclear
drives in general the Orion Drive the
post nuclear Drive is where you set the
nuclear bomb off behind thinking that
pushes on the ship the the Medusa drive
it's got the backwards for that where
you put a big long you know sail in
front of you and set the nuke off by
that and then I'll tether that pulls you
along
because you could actually deploy that
near a planet on some tether there's
like a thousand kilometers long you put
it for the wave of the planet so the
bombs can detonate and pull you up
um not out of an atmosphere mind you but
the up from like little orbit
um
nuclear proportion in general that was
just trying to go after the idea that
there's a lot more power uh to be
harnessed from a nuclear reaction than
from eating chemical and how you go
about policy there's so many different
ways but it's also got some limitations
a lot of the ways we would do nuclear
you're not getting that million to one
ratio that normally we'd say there's a
million times more nuclear energy in
something than chemical out of even a
good equal fuel like hydrogen but you
can't get that out of there not with the
kind of engine you normally put together
you can do at a very slow process with
like a fission reactor but anything
you're trying to do fast you have to
worry about melting everything or and
there's the other one running out of
propellant because I can use these
reactions to heat up a ton of hydrogen
to a certain temperature and a higher
one that I would get by just burning it
but not that much higher because it
would melt the engine and I went on a
hydrogen too fast so my ship got this
great reactor but it's out of fuel yeah
that's outside that fuel propellant
um
so yeah then you kill light bulb
versions those went on photons you can
do those indefinitely
um you've got the ones that would run
them on a closed cycle and just heat
field up you got ones that would just
electrically run a ion generator and we
covered a ton of these in the uh the
advanced spaceship
Advanced spaceship Drive compendium
which is the redo of experts chip
proportion episode that had all the
stuff on the EM Drive which I barely
covered on that one thankfully
um em drivers All the Rage we did the
first episode and that one's gonna
discuss that more so with a nuclear
option
um but any of those options are pretty
good in my mind so long as people are
comfortable to let you actually do some
uh some transport of nuclear materials
up into space on a regular basis
Jeff Payne says wouldn't the mass of
propellant increase the weight mass of
the vessel I'm sorry I think I misread
that wouldn't the mass of the propellant
increase as the weight mass of the
vessel
also increased so shouldn't the actual
thrust be the same as you approach the
speed of light
um
you can keep the thrust the same but the
thrust isn't going to get you the same
amount of acceleration uh at certain
points um
this is the the key thing about the
rocket equation is that
well it's the same thing we have the
relativity in relativity I have a
wheelbarrow that is my normal rest Mass
right I have this wheelbarrow and I'm
pushing along and it's empty as I get
faster I must put more mass in there
because my kinetic energy of motion now
counts as part of that energy Mass I'm
pushing
energy when I'm pushing Mass that's just
one type of energy so every bit faster I
go there's more stuff in that we will be
able to have to shove along this mass is
the base wheelbarrow at a certain point
we get to about 86 of light speed you
now have as much kinetic energy in terms
of mass a way to be without as you do
that real barrel and every time you get
a little bit faster that mountain goes
up until eventually it's ridiculously
huge and making it the majority of that
and your time stops running a lot slower
at that point too because your time is
what's experienced by that wheelbarrow
where it's empty uh it slows down as you
add more to the wheelbarrow the last
equation is the same thing but kind of
backwards if you actually want to get to
a destination at higher speed you need
to start off with a much heavier
wheelbarrow because you have to carry
that fuel with you and every extra
little bit faster you want to go you
need to put more in that wheelbarrow it
would help push only that itself and
that wheelbarrow but all the other fuel
with you and that's basically why you
were always slowing down it's using less
net acceleration because you have more
stuff to push
we had
a nut V and it has a picture of a
spaceship beaming you aboard really they
believe in the chat they have found your
secret alien identity
thank you wind and Ashley also a Super
Chat thank you is there such a thing as
an optimal shape for a spacecraft if so
what I imagine an elongated
ellipsoid sort of seed like in shape I
mean it depends on what the drive is and
what you're going through so we say
spacecraft right
um if I'm going through a relatively
thick part of the Galaxy my Optimum
spaceship come through a nebula is as
needle-like as I can get because every
bit of Sofia you got is more problematic
unless you're using something like abuse
Hardware amp I say something why
because the basic beast on ramja doesn't
work something is like sucking energy
into you know convert it into a black
hole into a Thrust
um then you want something that's kind
of wild on the front
um if you're dealing with a planet so
you want to slow down something wide
might be appropriate too or something
soft or like works really well if you've
got anti-gravity so what was a UFO ever
actually make sense that it would
softness and I said well yeah if you've
got anti-gravity it's perfect it's
actually not a bad design if you
actually want to have that as a spinning
rotating section to be much bigger at
that point but uh you know big wheel big
ring and you just have siding on it uh
to keep radiation down to keep you in
lower gravity supplies available so
there's a lot of wheel designs that you
would think of as being impractical but
they make sense in certain contexts
like you really don't have much reason
to build something touch the Enterprise
they got the osaso for habitation and
then you have their own nay sales Fall
because they're highly Radioactive with
memory Source that's the reason the real
reason it looks cool but uh in the
expanse series they point out that a lot
of the the other big battleships what
they basically always an office building
in space uh both and since they're built
like a skyscraper that's accelerating
from the bottom uh with the engine in
the basements and because most of what's
really being done on both those ships is
kind of paperwork and software they're
not getting ready to go fight people
hand to hand so
we have a follow-up to the previous
question from a protists wait if
velocity increases Mass couldn't you
create artificial Gravity by just
spinning matter underneath the floor
faster and faster
uh you know the problem with trying to
do a lot of these things when you start
running numbers you realize that it's
it's uh not as viable as you would think
uh first off if I'm spinning you faster
and faster on a ring that's fine but the
problem is when you do it well with
sphere specifically right if you inside
a hollow sphere that that Outer Edge
could be as massive as you want and
you're never gonna get artificial
gravity like a Dyson Sphere because it
completely cancels out it's just a
geometry involved those bits that
further away from you exhort less Force
but there's so many more of them and
just zeros out you gotta have the same
problem you do with the rings too on the
inside though is the the bits that are
far away from you cancel out
um so when you're spinning it and you're
increasing and smash yes you are
increasing that gravity you know that's
that's how that works you could just
easily though let's see that same effect
by
just adding energy to it store it
against some fashionable Mass
um but in the end the amounts involved
to produce that are so insanely huge
that you just beep it off doing spin
this one's a little odd a little bit
gross sorry uh Rob Hawk thank you for
your Super Chat rather than send new
astronauts to the moon in the future
couldn't we just clone the Apollo
Astronauts from the DNA in the Poo they
left behind
well you mean like clone the stuff
that's left behind on the Pod I I'd be
really surprised if anything organic was
still left up there that was in any kind
of decent shape we talk about DNA having
a half-life but it's not a radioisotope
it's it's just the native case
um if you had buried them underground
and they got vivified by that yes that's
what we did in the dead aliens episode
with a mystery that I thought was really
easy in the Obesity to solve what killed
that alien species off but um yeah I
think one person did get it right in the
comments actually I don't look though I
deleted out of the comments and send
them with congratulations
um but uh
you know you could you can potentially
restore DNA or find DNA on something
other than any other spoid but the cells
are going to die pretty quickly case
like that and all that background
radiation and and vacuum is not going to
be kind to proteins so I wouldn't expect
to find the actual usable protein or DNA
up there at this point in time
um nonetheless if you had it you could
just ask the question is what goes that
astronaut do if you clone them we we you
know we don't have to clone Buzz outrun
he's he's still around what's them all
uh and then once you own we you know
they we know where they're buried
they're natural Heroes so you'll
probably have much more chance to get
DNA from them hummingbird thank you for
your Super Chat I've been throwing the
idea around to exploit the extreme
environment of space near a neutron star
or a black hole argosphere to
mass-produce rare Isotopes or strange
materials any thoughts yeah
um
so this comes up in a question uh this
is something we'll discuss more if we
had the colonizing neutron star episode
but that's not going to happen because
it died horribly in the pool
um but we do talk about it in one of the
upcoming episodes I'm trying to know
which one it was
um that's what I just wrote recently
atmospheric money that was fun so at the
end of the atmospheric mining which will
be coming out in September October I
just got done dividing it toward the end
we give a little bit of which of what
you could do with your mind the
atmosphere is a stellar remnants or
stars
um and uh and said just you know place
like Venus or Jupiter and one point we
may feel is that when you're dealing
with a neutron star or a black hole
they're kind of compressive forces going
on there the kind of sheer gravity or
energy gain in terms of potential you
get there could be used for some
interesting uh well it's really some
interesting nuclear chemistry maybe some
quantum chemistry so you might become
with some very impressive elements
cheaper from that kind of environment
that's how we get things like that out
of neutron stars clotting the first
place is you know things that should not
only be able to happen based on the
cross-section changes when you shove
matter down to you know here's the
entire mountain or something to size so
yes exactly how you do that it's a
little bit harder to say but you should
be able to actually run stuff through
the yoga sphere of a black hole and
potentially get it out on the other side
very energy in terms of process though
but probably better super collateral
we had a question from David Schultz he
says I'm sorry I missed the first half
do you have any updates on your adoption
proceedings and your speech procedure
I'm sorry if you already explained them
well I'm I would say on the on a speech
one I would say this it's been a lot of
improvement except I seem to have
picked up allergies 10 minutes for the
show start I saw that sneezing wildly so
you wouldn't be able to tell as much
from my voice right now because one of
these the procedure on my nose did was
to make sure I could breathe the easier
through there at the moment that just
happens to not be true because it's
horrible air quality you know these Ohio
the last couple weeks
um so the procedural itself we we
um
we fix a deviation in my septum my nose
which these things I must have broken my
nose when I was a kid which would be
believed why I was a bit of a soccer
Thug about to get uh and and then we did
something to fix the terminates in there
um that are the ones that kind of move
stuff through
um
if you're easily to store you probably
don't want to look at the camera for a
second yeah
we did a we are showing on that tongue
tie then there'll be a noticed and I I'm
really grateful to actually have had a
speech therapist to contact us in 40
years that nobody ever caught it so I am
getting much better at pronouncing the
letter r as in Pirates but I still have
to practice it so like physically it's
possible now but the muscles still need
to be built up a bit more and I still
need to get more in the habit of
pronouncing them that way so that's
still going to be a little bit of time
on the adoption front they call it a
paperwork pregnancy uh for a reason yeah
so we'll adopting three kids so it takes
more time so we started wouldn't we
actually start the paperwork it was like
February of last year or uh yes so
January the last week of January of 22.
so
actually maybe we are into pregnancy
three by now yeah we'd be getting there
um and uh let's see so we have passed
the official six month Marco of having
the kids in the house we'll be there at
the end of June we were allowed to
legally adopt them but then it has to go
through all the paperwork and
um that could take months you know it's
it's hopefully hopefully sooner than
that but everything is is looking
positive for that and I'm looking
forward to being able to see my kids
names on on you know Facebook will
change you have so many like fun first
time experiences like oh it's almost
done about the bike I took a training
wheels off my youngest kid's son I've
taped it and watched thing two as I call
him for purposes of this go down the
driveway and back up again and only fall
over once tries to get back up it was
awesome and uh and I I got a couple of
minutes of video of that and I thought I
want to tell somebody about this and
yeah so
I you probably should not post your
entire Live Events to Facebook but at
the same time
you kind of miss it too so
um there's a lot of that kind of thing
like the first time you bake a cake with
them you know or whatever it is the
first time out in the garden they had
chickens they're having a lot of fun
with the chickens and uh you know
they're good to have no chance to share
that so uh we are looking forward to
being able to finally get that adopted
and done but uh it is cd-along according
to Pace
we have one last question here that I
can get to before the Super Chat it's
from Patrick doonan which is more
achievable creating answer
anti-hypertrophy medicine allowing us to
live easily on planets turning them into
ecumenopoly or just building O'Neill
cylinders mega cities or megastructures
Okay
um
I don't take anti-hypertrophy medicine
to mean anti-getic or low aging type
medicines
um if I'm wrong about that sorry and uh
when it comes to Eco monopolises I would
say that those just those would be very
hard to build on the ground that you all
are you it's like
there's nothing complex about building a
city but actually building one is is a
monstrous Endeavor of generations at
every level it's so much harder than any
of the individual projects in it
um
I think it takes everything you got to
put something like an audio Soto that is
that's big or that in New York City you
require more construction than New York
City
um but trying to make an entire planet
New York City would take more
um whereas it might just be that
somebody going day says oh hey if we
poke uh you know one mitochondria with
this one little bit of radiation it will
act better and suddenly you you will
have so much little oxidation issues and
live three times longer that might be as
simple as that is we don't know yet
whereas something I can only also know
or one of these other Mega you know
structures it might be that you design
it and that's a label of thousands of
people for a lifetime but once you have
the design in place
uh you you say hey robot build that it's
like I will do that now and five months
later it's done and you don't need any
more input
um and that's it that might be all it
takes is that design so I would say the
design phase for a lot of these things
is probably gonna be able to taste the
most effort
um but uh wait and see it's now time to
cook Isaac we have a two minute
lightning round and we're gonna ask you
some rapid fire questions remember the
rules are they're supposed to keep your
answers to 10 to 15 seconds or less see
we can do all that first question here
is from Stevie J is spin launch viable
yes it is a possible to do it I think
it's probably a better option for things
like cargo where you can go with lots
shorter track and high ogs
Sona Bella is it possible to escape the
Event Horizon of a black hole if the
Event Horizon shrinks past your position
in theory yes I think that you'd
probably be destroyed in that process
there
Rico Hayes can we use electromagnetism
for propulsion yes electrodynamic
tethering like we discussed before we
generating momentum on scrapbooks we
want such example
sort of photon Drive
Thomas tomasi wormholes are they
possible or not they won't go on paper I
don't think that we'd ever expect to see
one another universe
Sono Bella when would you expect the
first space War to be fought
um it depends on what kind of warfare
like we're talking fourth or fifth
generation Warfare that might be much
sooner
um but a real full-blown War I'd say you
need only at least a million people
living in space
we have one from Raven what would the
cruising speed be on an Interstellar
laser Highway
at least 20 of light speed otherwise
you'd probably just be using fission or
Fusion to run that sort of thing but
potentially as high as 99
Intergalactic one might be that high
that sounds cool so if you like speed go
to space
matt33 says which is the best propulsion
method to reach nearly the speed of
light I'll Interstellar laser highway
I'll go with that one for method oh yes
okay big lasers possibly preferably
powered by a black hole or something
freaky like vacuum energy
we have a super chat from David Schultz
he said he made it for the second half
and thank you sfia mods editors and
everyone and I'd like to give a shout
out to Maya skill and thank him for his
help in moderating the chat today thank
you so much
anybody who's a regular on Disco and
alsoever would like to help out on
future ones please message him on me on
Discord because I'm sure he'd like to
help
and the last one I have today is a
general question I'm sure many of your
audience share will you ever run out of
ideas for videos what would you always
saying what's awesome about the future
is there's just so much more of it so no
we never went out of ideas we run out of
posts put them all in so so thank you
very much for joining us today uh it's
great to do the live stream it's been a
bit and we're looking forward to seeing
you for next month and in the meantime
we'll see you on Thursday for our next
episode which is Earth after Humanity
we'll see you then
thank you for joining us for another
monthly live stream if we missed any of
your questions feel free to put them in
the comments on the episode and we'll
see you on Thursday but if you don't
want to wait you can check out any of
this month's recent episodes or see our
bonus content over on nebula at
go.nebula.tv Isaac Arthur as always
thanks for watching and have a great
week
