good afternoon everyone and welcome to
the SFI a monthly livestream Q&A will
get sowed in just a moment but go ahead
and stop getting your questions in the
chat window
so our moderators can start relaying
those to me as soon as we stopped please
try to keep the questions concise and
watch your spelling and try to be polite
to others in the chat we usually go for
about an hour so you probably want to
grab a drink and a snack though we'll
take a break about halfway through to
with all that said welcome and let's get
stoned good afternoon everybody and
welcome to our mulched livestream we'll
go ahead and get started your questions
in just a moment just move a heads up we
will go ahead and talk about the virus a
little bit today but I really rather
stuck to you most of the usual content
in show so try name your questions
mostly that direction and we'll bring
them through as via going I saw one just
a moment ago as we were getting started
about post-scarcity civilizations and
gt+ racing and asked I asked what tech
did you think would lead to a
post-scarcity society you answered
automation with the caveat of power I
can see it happening but without major
period of trouble thoughts okay um post
curiosity is always kind of tricky to to
discuss we actually have that coming up
in our economies of the future episode
in April to discuss a little bit more
but we usually say they oh you can't
really have a definition of scarcity of
raw materials because that's a very
dubious concept you could ever have a
complete lack of scarcity with those and
it's we usually it's a scarcity of
anxiety about you know major major needs
for life and not just your basic
resources like food and shelter but
kinda long-term security so the big ones
we use sale automation and power because
we got more manpower in terms of
automation then you're gonna do a lot
better in terms being a blue so are
those basic needs well giving people a
lot of time to do other things more
specialized tasks or recreation or
personal self-actualization which the
top of the Maslow's hierarchy for that
and then of course power the issue there
is you need a cheap power source a lot
of things get a lot cheap on easy to do
if you have a vast amount of power and
of course it has to be something that
you can sustain and death and
and you know without major concerns
about what's gonna do the environment or
other things like that this is a power
supply that doesn't have a very negative
consequence just from using and is it
something that was still gonna be around
in 10,000 years as opposed to having to
hoard it okay so will there be an
adjustment period oh yes yeah that's a
kind of new technology in the cards
episode that comes up this upcoming week
on Thursday we will talk about that a
little bit more but basically there's
gonna be disruption there's always
technological disruption there's be more
of it it's what we seeing in quite a lot
of it probably the next year or so I
should think but there's gonna be that
as an ongoing thing you know Callaway
asks on a scale of one to ten with one
being the smallest in existence and ten
being the largest do we have any idea
where humans would fit on that scale has
a study ever attempted to find this out
I mean it kind of depends on if you want
to go lineal and and how far you're
going down you I think the smallest
distance the Planck Planck length is 10
bigot 35 meters don't quote me on that
it's much smaller than an atom and then
if you're going to include that and even
you'd up to like the 10 to the 45th
meter scale which would be much much
bigger than then the observable universe
we would then fit into the upper size
category on that on the end of you're
going about things like the you know the
atomic scale 10 to negative 10 meters or
so then we would be about mid-range R on
the lower side of it but basically we
fit in at the stage where our trillions
of particles interact to produce every
minor effect that we have going on us
like your cell is we often say with cell
was you know you talk about molecules
and if you talk about big macromolecules
those can have a million atoms in them
but somatic water that just has three
atoms in it you know you think about
something like that as a brick then the
typical cell in us that will built out
of the bricks that make us up as a city
I humans a city of made of cells well a
cell is basically a city made out of
bricks of small atoms and buildings of
small proteins if that helps with scale
at all pentagram prime mass
any thoughts on ways of speeding up drug
discovery um you know I want to be kind
of careful on that one because it's
always very tempting when we're talking
about new medication
anything to say well once is out we just
speeded up by speeding up testing
removing a lot of regulations and people
tend to forget I mean from the
corporation's angle they don't really
like to get sued that much but people
tend to forget you can have people die
in drug trials quite a lot and if you go
ahead and do a drug trial something
forwards ready it can really have some
negative consequences and you know a lot
of times you're saying well if we watch
this new drug out this new drug
treatment will say addiction or this new
drug treatment for X Y or Z many people
will benefit might save thousands even
millions of lives it might kill that
many if you messed up no it might cause
major you know I see you have one for
dealing with addiction if it turns out
that it only works temporary only or the
cars and addiction that substance people
don't notice over cars a deficiency in
something else and you've got ahead and
deployed that to millions of people
because that going to know the early
results without a good longitudinal
study there's a very good chance there's
a lot I'm going to get quite ill or sick
or depend on something and you know it's
it's it's a iffy coin flip Camp Cass
situation and those kind of side effects
they're not Rea oh there they are
you know almost every medication we roll
out and talk about the ones we actually
rolled out as personal as I make it
through clinical tends to have some side
effects then we kind of nasty for a
decent portion of the population so drug
discovery moves pretty quick there's
always ways to speed up modeling and
fall battle computer modeling that's
gonna help us out a lot but better
scanning so we can see very accurately
what's going on as opposed to what we
essentially have to do now is talk to
people and ask them how they're feeling
and take a few basic readings things
change a lot when you have more accurate
scanning capacity you can get much more
detail your modeling so that would be
the two that I would say technology can
most easily help speed up and then I'd
say probably and we'll have this come up
more in some of the upcoming episodes no
networks
well not the focus of are those gonna be
very handy for a lot of that content
because they're very good at decision
making in a prediction so you can give
them a big wad of data and they can pick
things out of it that you're not gonna
be able to get from a classic computer
and that's just too much of a
non-intuitive wad for humans pick out on
their own
okay micro French ass Isaac I know we
all worn out with Kovan 19 is the
elephant to the room that must at least
be mentioned
how does the futurist think we'll be
proactive against this in 10 years 100
years nice buzz words go ahead and say I
think this has probably got a good
chance of meeting our last pandemic we
have a face I really don't want to focus
too much on the virus I'm not an
epidemiologist but there's a lot of
little technologies that can help with
breakouts for things like this to really
speed up your quarantine procedures or
really cut down on the odds of infecting
somebody else and everything with
viruses statistics games so if you can
lower the infection rate by you know 15%
on something like that that has a huge
impact on your ability to contain and
control in but um you know let's would
take an example here we talked about a
little bit in passing and the upsetting
new technology the codes on on April
which is not relate to the virus because
we're in the back and like dissemble but
let's say every got the fitbit's on and
it monitors your health very accurately
and it can give you all the warning
signs of symptoms it's not a guarantee
but old warning signs and it says maybe
she could pop in and see the doctor you
know Fitbit on your smartphone and you
go and you see the doctor and the doctor
says oh you've got X well we have all
your positioning data on your phone and
we everybody else's position data on
their phone not everybody's and some
people might choose to opt out for
privacy but now we can contact everybody
who came into close contact with and on
a privacy angle you could set that up so
that you know the phone logs we keep
track of eight was in that cell phone
tower each at that time nothing more and
we just send them a message saying hey
you may have been exposed to something
hit the you know hit this key the
central position data out to compare
against the person who was exposed and I
could come back and say you've got a
positive hit go check in the doctor
that's not gonna be a 106 but something
like that if you need that rolling which
is really not that advanced compared to
we would have now I mean the ability
detect like a fever or nose a cough in
someone with a piece of electronic
device they're wearing like a bracelet
not that much of an advance that
positioning thing not that much of
advance and you know even really catches
say 50% although it's more likely much
more like 90% than my catch in case like
that high position that's gonna have a
huge impact on things like outbreaks and
then you that's a completely different
technology going out my you know the
ways we're going about preventing
infections or queuing them or
vaccinating them and you add all those
things in together and I think there is
I'm not gonna say this is our last
pandemic ever but I think there's
actually a good chance this will be it
and you'll be able to tell your
grandkids I survived the last big one
and you know it's just uh it's a fight
its statistics and see how far you can
go long with it so there's a lot of
reasons to be optimistic about the
long-term future for us in terms of
things like that mark Suman asks how
would food crops be affected by low
algae environments or for the most part
very little from what we can tell we
have very limited experimentation with
that as a light remind people we know
almost nothing about what low gravity
does to people or all plants because
what we do is we check for what it does
in zero gravity and only those few days
we had even up on the moon did we
actually know about what would happen to
people when they lived in low gravity
and they were only there for a few days
and they were in zero gravity on either
side of that not to mention rapid
acceleration also as other physical
stresses so same for the plants I think
we have tried going a couple of them in
centrifuges at some point to to see the
effect of gravity but for the most part
what we do is you know see how it does
on low gravity and most some seem to do
just fine low gravity those should
really just have an effect of probably
making the you know say spread out a
little bit differently it would have a
big effect on things like trees but
probably a much smaller effect on things
like grasses and stuff like that so need
more of your vine crawling plants like a
strawberry I wouldn't think they'd be to
have the impact at all though there
would be a lot of little impacts a lot
of plants that were normally a ground
vine cover might turn into one that
creeps up the sides of buildings or you
know onto trellises so but I don't think
they'd necessarily get anyway more or
less productive that wouldn't strike me
as being one of the scenes that would
change too much that is one of the
things though that we are actually gonna
have to see there may be some crops that
explode when they are in space and then
just pour out food they may be others
though that just don't produce nearly as
well
Donna B asks do you think the timeline
for widespread adaptation of
nanotechnology will be accelerated now
hmm no
you know you can well that's always hard
to say anytime you have a situation
where people are more actively thinking
about the importance of a certain zone
with scientific research you start
seeing a lot more folks go into it a lot
more folks dedicate their lives to it a
lot more research funding come into play
and a lot more prioritization of it and
that includes a lot of the outlet box
stuff someone comes by and says hey
we've got something that can go into
individual cells and check for XY and Z
or you know almost any other
applications of nanotechnology have
pretty impressive medical applications
if we get them walking but so much was
still in the ground-based theory state
then it's just a question of all more
folks kind of go into it and is more
funny and go into it so if that were the
case then yes quite I probably would see
an advancement of that Ginga know
hashira asks since there was a lot of
discussion in the Dyson swarm was there
ever consideration of how it affects the
sun's magnetic fields and how we can
change trajectory in a galaxy because of
it let's see it's not really gonna have
a very big impact on the sun's magnetic
field unless you are specifically trying
to set it up that way like if you're
doing stall lifting which is a type of
Dyson swarm it's just not the habitation
type we think of as to using it to steal
the Earth's course the sun's course
around the galaxy I mean over the course
of a billion years yes you could alter
it pretty significantly but you'd be
better off just using you know
reflection off the various panels Emile
is floating around that star to make it
a shot of thirst or or while the other
ones we discussed in fleet of stars that
had a little bit more oomph form see
clucky decree ass regarding actors
support structures if there was a power
failure would that lead to a structural
collapse are there any possible fail
saves it depends on which one we're
talking about keep in mind for the most
part with actors support what's running
them isn't really power in fact you're
hoping to make them as power low as
possible which if you have something
like good superconductors well
room-temperature superconductors and you
have an actual magnetic shield we don't
really have very good magnetic shooting
materials
you met was about the best what we are
going to do a lot but it was so many
materials if you got those two things
that you can theoretically set up a an
active support member to basically be
zero power requirement or as close to
zero as makes no difference and if
that's the case then a power failure
doesn't do anything to it for the others
it's most you can start slowing down is
the power drops and you know there's an
OSHA involved in that and I guess would
depend on what kind of man you are using
if using electromagnets the power goes
off more of an issue but you'd obviously
use a lot of you know redundancy we know
how to set things like that up but in
for instance with an orbital ring or
like a lobster loop would take that
example specifically the last room loop
the abridged ordering when you shut the
power up on that it's just slowly
descends and then even then we have a
tendency think about things like space
elevators or openings crashing down to
the ground and that's actually a bit of
a concern for an orbital ring just
because you build those things to be
really quite massive for a space
elevator if you cut one of those the
bottom end is gonna fall down to the
earth and the other end is gonna go
flying off into space so it just depends
on where it gets cut and it's you know
you talk about a while or maybe as thick
as your home and it's not gonna you know
descend it the entry speed it's gonna
descend at the speed of you know
whatever its terminal velocity is say a
hundred miles now that's I'm gonna have
a house underneath it when I fell down
they were talking about an arm thick
cable but it's gonna hit it like on a
mouse now it's no worse than if they
call crash into that house and the plan
is huge no housing takes very little of
that so even an equatorial one really
cause that much damage
um the orbiter wing is a bit different
because we tend to think about building
those as you know the small motion is
really just about the same width as a
space elevator but we start talking
about putting big platforms and space
ports up there that's more of an issue
and if you're doing that then what
you're gonna go ahead and do is put pay
oh shoots out of things so and little
detonating charges so the power goes out
you'll begin to descend and if you get
some point when you sort country the
thing you we separate the sections blow
the extra orbital material out and let
the parachutes take it down the ground
and then you make sure that nothing is
actually built directly I don't eat
these things um you know think of it as
like a high Raven comes to the ward with
us a UH one Killam you know stretch
around it that you just don't build
anything that you can't easily evacuate
it's fun
but it would take you know what Oprah
minutes up there any kilometres in the
air which is about as low as you build
one that's gonna take like an hour to
fall hat that's PDS even without the pea
shooters are quite trike some time to
descend let's see of course the big
safety mechanism that we always have for
for power failure is the battery and of
course we're looking to get much better
at batteries but there's a lot of energy
stored in orbital ring it's kinda like a
cylinder habitat you know you've got
those things spinning so fast that if
you need to you can just slow the spin
rate down and slowly and just use to be
dynamo to power generator for a bit
let's see the mass nido asks in your
video on colonizing Alpha Centauri you
said that it may not be the first place
that we will want to colonize so what
are the places you have in mind for
interstellar colonization ah you know
tau ceti
excuse me my allergies or vacuum today
umm Tau Ceti is one that comes up a lot
more because it seems to haven't but
I've set up for that Delta Epsilon and
of course you'll hear a lot about you
know this is our system where we
discovered a dozen exoplanets as the
first place we want to colonize from an
interstellar perspective I don't know if
we just do one to try it out and see
what happened or we just launched a
dozen missions in different directions
at the same time or close to it but I
kind of figured Alpha Centauri would be
the first one we colonize or send a
mission to at least because it is the
closest and that's gonna be the one you
sent to force as a result but don't
stall if we find a planet they oh I
can't know if we actually have enough
that might be a good choice too um but
it kind of depends on how quickly we
wore something like that out if you're
not very confident about your your you
know fleet or ship that you sent they go
to colonize the place you probably just
send one maybe another group sends
another one and you see how that happens
and then you know a century or so later
when you get back good data from them
having arrived and you know gotten
checked in you say okay here are some
improvements we can make let's go ahead
and mass-produce and you send hundreds
of the fleets out after that the other
alternative of the course would be that
you say well we'll pretty rely about
this or test modeling we got plenty of
volunteers we got plenty production
let's just go ahead and send 100 feet
sow to each of the hundred close
Stahl's I last Roman thank you very much
hey man your marine buddy Thomas he Oh
Semper Fi hi Thomas
when he was wandering I was all me not
marine so I did have a chance to walk
with with the Marines in in Ramadi for a
while we're not in Iraq and they're
always a great pleasure to walk with
same for the Navy guys and I did
actually do an internship with the Air
Force way back when I was a civilian so
um let's see
cool again thank you very much what are
your personal coronavirus preparations
well for myself to start touching my
face is the big one I'm not usually that
bad about that my moustache is itching
today which why I keep tweet that um
let's see mmm keepin tempted to cut the
beard off because I used to shave it off
fairly regularly but everybody says I
look better with a beard on um I'm
already a bit of a hermit crab to begin
with I don't really go out that much
unless they need me that like the Board
of Elections for handling something or
if you know I need to run out go
shopping or something like that I'm also
a public speaker which means you know
into a sense of I'm reliant on my voice
so I'm always kind of paranoid about
catching the flu from people saying for
say Oh actually has go shake people's
hands a lot but in my case I don't have
to do a lot of hand shaking but I do
have to do a lot of public speaking so
I'm always very nervous about cause
influence in the first place you could
still talk when you have the flu but it
degrades your voice a lot so I mean the
big advice I tell everyone on this one
your mouth a bit of them wash your hands
don't touch your face until you've
washed right and just try to get out of
the habit of touching your face you know
even at home because it's fine to do it
at home you know but once you've washed
your hands off but it's the habit just
try to break yourself with that habit
and if you got got an itch you know you
know have that one on the top in two and
the other one to go more over with that
way you're not hitting them with the
same bit but I would say mostly under
than that
get some exercise eat healthy get a lot
of sleep and shut the news off you know
watch the news for like five minutes and
then shut it off and just remember you
can always catch this virus from
anything it could be touching on a door
handle it could be attached some piece
of plastic for three or four days but
you're almost solely to get this going
to have got it from
you know touching somebody and then
touching your face or touchings of the
LBL stars like a doorknob and then
touching a face
you're not very likely pick it up from
almost anything else and if everyone
could stop magically touching their face
for a month they would probably pretty
much just go away there'll be a few
isolated factions here or they are
mostly from somebody to their child it
applies for so to their spouse soon if
you know though but other than that
that's the big one you know just try to
get yourself in the habit of not
touching your face and try not to you
know just watch the 24 hour cycle you
know stay informed stay small be
rational but don't let this stuff weigh
down on you all the time and the other
one is there's a life advice thing
always find a silver lining to
everything and then kind of trying to
own it you know if there's something
going on it's causing problems in life
find a silver lining to it and focus
entirely on doing that don't try to make
it a silver lining to a bad thing try to
make an accomplishment you know now is a
great time to be fixing the deck up in
your backyard that you keep meaning to
restain or to you know seal up those
holes and the in your drywall or
whatever it is that you've got going on
as DIY projects or spring cleaning that
you keep thinking about do them now you
know and use the time to establish good
health habits because you know that's a
lot of what's going on right now is if
everyone just had good health habits
then then this would pretty much die off
and this whole chance to kind of get
into those and then the silver life of
that is you might not get a flu next
year you know there might be man into a
lot things like the flute less about out
for a while at least
so come on of Iowa's preparations those
are about it you know that don't don't
let it weigh down on you emotionally as
a big one stay upbeat and find something
to be upbeat about it always is
something time zone hey Isaac in your
doc matter episode you toured the
communication you told that
communication using doc matter would be
much more reliable and just better so
this means that we here that we would
not be able to hear you thoughts on this
in the documentary episode that's just
something called the doc
Telegraph which would be a very very
dense long string of doc matter if you
can find some way to contain it they've
actually reduced up you know a Baltic
Mass slow in the same way a black hole
does and you can't really aim something
through most materials than a hypo
tennis like that
and through dark metal because doesn't
imagine anything so that's one trick
that you might be able to set up if you
find a way to contain it and set up like
we just had a very dense line of
material that you can shoot something
through it as a message and we slowed
down that way on the other end that's a
little dubious from a journal Tilly
standpoint though and there's so much we
don't know about about dark matter yet
that it's kind of one of those
interesting notions to explore down the
road
Duvall thank you very much I don't see
post-scarcity coming up about until
after space is being colonized I think
the only new form governments will
allowed its how demand something anyone
can manufacture it your thoughts um no
one's gonna be able to manufacture
everything we have a tendency and see
the Santa Claus machine up so for
details we have a tendency to assume
that once you have a good 3d printing it
means you have a stall tractor
applicator that it can make anything at
all and then it's not that's not how
that will happen there's also a time
constraint on that I think we were
talking about this for the antimatter
episode the ability to produce at home
and I'm saying that conversation for
that antimatter factories then uses I
believe that some a episode might be
Olli tune will talk about Allah that was
kind of weapons and that will apply
across the board for things like
producing that but as to if you only be
done more in space I tend to see these
things as tending to happen together or
not because they necessary to but
because they were a complementary I
don't think a civilization has to go
into space to become post-scarcity but
it certainly helps and I think that if
you all post-scarcity you're gonna go to
space so it's one of those things where
you're I think that we will probably see
post-scarcity come about about the same
time we all seen more space development
but they are only loosely intertwined
like for instance power satellites might
be the energy abundance that we need and
the ability to make automation much
better might be the thing that lets us
kin to space much easier so mmm it's
kind of hard to say and I don't know
about you know where governments are
concerned I think this is tendency to
assume a lot of the government's Sun on
distant isolated counties would be a lot
less you know a lot less like they are
nowadays in terms of there's a very
standardized structure and quite a lot
of an apparatus as opposed like the old
Wild West and
can picture those colonies is the Wild
West and actually we have an episode
coming up on that in about two months
there's an episode 242 space police so
that would be a fun one
Albert Jackson says full staff
congratulations on your wedding coming
up in April thank you very much
answer the question what's your best
favorite episode you've done yet and
what episode are you most excited about
doing in the future you know I don't
really have favorites the same way um
there's your favorite still my favorites
just because it let me talk about a
topic I was particularly fond of and
favorites that all my favorites cuz they
did very well with the audience and you
know favorites where it just seemed like
you came together really well I would
say black hole farming original
civilization the you know Thomas ode is
always gonna be one of my personal
favorites because you know that not only
do the episode of Airy well but it was
kind of surprised that did I done it
episode kind of finish up some thoughts
I've been discussing a few episodes
before that and I thought it'd have a
very low engagement time and that very
few people be interested in it because
you know you had to watch like four or
five episodes what really makes sense
and yet it is one of our few or four
most popular episodes for a long time it
was number one and I think the the
number one title is all they've got
about a million views each or Alpha
Centauri and the sequel to uh black hole
for me IO installs I think all the
number one and number two but I'd have
to double check that it changes a little
bit with time so I say that's probably
my favorite episode just because it was
the one we got to really do a lot of
out-of-the-box thinking on of course you
know it's very theoretical stuff but
it's that kind of Big O topics that we
like to do and you know there's a lot of
those episode so if I start thinking
about them or get distracted though but
you know it's usually if it was my other
ones we really got to be out of the box
Williams mother was once we used you for
two as a classic s FIA that would be one
of the ones take one more two more for
you go to the break mmm Voges a swill
manly be able to be the norm in the
future now that you've set a trend yeah
I noticed that they were actually a lot
more beards and I all got a lot of
public official as an elected official
was an N for a long time you just never
see anybody running for office
it was very real thing I notice we have
a lot more of them in Ohio of late
Northeast Ohio quite a few my friends
who are in the local county government
or commercial and Otto for instance both
have beards now and Susan very well so
I'm glad to see beards making their way
back to me the boot you know it's kind
of actually a neutral thing I used to
grow a beard for a while goatee and then
shave it down to a goatee and then shave
it off that once a month and go pale
cheek Folau and I've just had this one
going on for a few months now and it
seems I think it looks better on me so
it's there
I'd be fine shaving it off the very next
day it's actually for those of you do
not grow beards it is actually more of a
pain in the butt to maintain a beard
halfway decently than it is to actually
shave every day so take that as a grain
of salt if you're planning to start
growing one but let's see it's actually
a funny story on this is a couple years
back I started losing weight I said it's
you know shave up all the beers and
things like that you know because you
tend to sweat a lot me doing exercise
and so for almost a year I didn't have a
beard on and I grew one out to fit the
costume I was wearing when I was going
up with my friend Bill and Eric to to
spend the sorry I didn't make that trip
to spend a weekend near Rochester for
their medieval fail and Bill's a
historian and variants who what's called
Hema historic European martial arts so
here's all dressed up in costume and I
was doing a ruse Viking costume so I had
to grow a beard and then worn one quite
a while so I got back looked in the meal
and choice ever want to shave it off and
I saw some great hail in it and I was
like oh no gray hair and I said well if
I shave it off I'm being vain so I ended
up wearing again for a while and that
seems to have evolved into the corn
beard all right take one more real quick
before we go to break my zombie Lacasse
what security precautions do you
consider essential between two
pertaining to brain to computer
interfaces and similar technology once
they are advanced enough to imprint
memories to our brains ie learning
without knowing the specifics of how the
hallway walks on and something like that
it would be really hard to give you a
security precaution but I would say you
wouldn't want anything like that to be
you probably I think what you have is
stick companies verify companies
counting like we do with software
patches nowadays and it really high
transparency on those so I think the one
big one with that would be you probably
have to do some limitations on
intellectual property rights or
adjustments of patents on those fields
so that companies that were doing those
felt safe letting their software be seen
so that it could be transparent to
people looking at it but without them
why though there are gonna get stolen if
you've got multiple thought groups that
can you know thought employees can look
and verify that a given update is gonna
be fine then you can go ahead and pass
that through to people without them
having to know the code themselves to
audit it and if you're signed alone you
know you say you download the program
from some random third party about how
you know a third party app on how do you
kung-fu and find out that it's giving
you some really real trend like an
intense urge to buy a specific dessert
from X company no that's the kind of
thing we were looking to want to avoid
and obviously I could be much worse like
the intense social vote for X Y or Z
alright we're gonna go ahead and go to
break I will talk to your own a few
minutes so while one break and folks are
grabbing drinks and snacks I thought
we'd do some show announcements forced
it's hard to ignore the big global
pandemic going on but for those who saw
my facebook announcement on the matter a
couple weeks back I do believe it's
important for folks to have someplace to
get a breather from the 24/7 news cycle
and as SFI a is already a place where we
tend to be nowhere near modern times and
places I figured I should keep the
channel free as a place to escape to
so we'll address it a bit today in the
live stream and it gets a quick mention
in this upcoming Thursday SEPA sewed but
otherwise we'll basically ask you
everyone to avoid discuss yet any more
than necessary on the show and our
social media I really awful life advice
but while it's important to keep updated
follow health guidelines and get plenty
of sleep and exercise it's also
important during crisis to find some
mental space to be free of it and SFI a
is already a good fit for that so we
won't be discussing it much here and my
life advice would be to check the news
once or twice a day for a few minutes
then shut it off and avoid talking with
folks about it unless it's specifically
potent since by sheer coincidence our
April 2nd episode new technologies that
may be in
cards actually does discuss a bunch of
things relevant to the matter
I did an addendum on to that episode
briefly discussing it but it is a sheer
coincidence since episodes get written
and recorded months in advance here this
is the reason I can say that we will
still be having weekly episodes even in
late April and early May when I'm
getting married they were all done and
they just need to be released which
doesn't take much time and Sarah and I
are both public officials so still have
to check in a little bit with life in
case of emergencies which will obviously
end so we can't go 100% off the grid
anyway but weigh me for 99% and I'll
just take a few minutes on Thursday
mornings to release those episodes and
that's the other thing keeping me a bit
preoccupied of late I am a public
official and so Vaughn the Board of
Elections here in Ohio and we had to
postpone that election and reconfigure
around that crisis so it's been a bit of
a wild ride and I just want to give a
big attaboy to my staff they all for the
amazing job they've done under hectic
times as well as all the poll workers
who were ready to show up and walk in
spite of the danger and I'll confess was
a weight off my chest when we could
postpone it and tell all those hundreds
of folks to stay home especially as most
of those folks all senior citizens one
sad note I recently had the honor to get
the Pioneer Award from the National
Space Society they don't hand out many
of those and previous recipients are
folks like John Glenn and Elon Musk and
the governing board includes folks like
Buzz Aldrin and Freeman Dyson who we
sadly did a tribute video on recently
when he passed away so was a very big
and also posner honor as so many of the
governors and recipients all my heroes
and the NSS has been a source of
information and inspiration to me for
most of my life I was going to be down
in Dallas for their make confidence to
give a talk on space colonization and
receive that award but it had to be
cancelled for safety reasons nonetheless
I still counted a great on oh and we'll
do something with him at some point I'm
sure another thing that got delayed was
the unveiling of our new studio for SFI
a which was supposed to be done a while
ago but kept hitting delays even before
the crisis but it's almost done and
we're not doing a live stream in April
so I'm confident this will be our last
live stream from the old studio and
free with the new one we'll be able to
start experimenting with some fun new
stuff the show one thing I'm absolutely
not postponing or d'Alene is my wedding
even if the sky falls in or we have to
do it by video and thanks again to
everyone for the well wishes and for
those who've been asking I will go ahead
and post a link to our wedding registry
in today's livestream with the request
that if you do get us a gift please make
sure it has a note with an address so we
can send you a thank-you card alright
with all that said let's get back to
your questions okay and we're back
the k2 despot asks will you ever do a
video about smart man oh technology I
thought should we had I can't go which
one it is
um if not I will get about doing one
what are the different possible methods
for making it a reality what could we do
with it and what couldn't we do with it
um I wish I could member what episode
that was we covered in I know I ended up
talking about the T five thousand or
three thousand rather from the tornado
jezus movie as an example that's about
the only I can call their out that
episode everyone does remember what that
episode was please post in the comments
but with smoke mantle you know don't
assume that you'd be able to do the
equivalent of Star Trek replicator with
it but you would have something that
might be say a lot of like the
equivalent of cell human cell made out
of something that was mechanical maybe a
bit smaller maybe a bit larger and
Decker able to bind to each of the form
shapes and so you probably ought to make
anything that was they actually fairly
complicated by just assembling those in
the mid some pieces but it would be
limitations on that and it would be you
just wouldn't have like one type of cell
same as a human you'd have specialized
ones ones though it meant for being
electronic so it gets ones that were
meant for being you know hauled
shielding on the outside of something
and so on and it's possible something
like that could for instance you know
condense your glass of water and form
into a glass of water around it so the
actual glass but yes I could imagine we
pulling a plow the awfully D though I
don't think that's probably not in the
cards but the ability to produce
something like an apple by by rapidly
growing it or by printing it over the
course of you know several minutes that
might be in the college
Brian Mooar says you look good with that
for beer thank you
Ginga no hoshi OS is a collective
conscious possible without losing one's
individuality yes we have one now um as
we discussed in hive minds we already
all in networked intelligence whenever
you start seeing a specialized society I
mean even something like a pack or a
hoard it's there how tangible is a
little bit debatable right there is a
line between you know what we have in
terms of a networked intelligence now
and something a little bit more you know
psychic mystical way that's actually got
thinking brain of its own other things
like that obviously the cards to from a
technological angle but you don't
necessarily have to have that full-blown
consciousness to have something else
according to a networked idea you know
groups groups act with the personalities
of war and I don't just mean like mob
behavior you know like a group like your
local village or this or that company
this or that you know gaming group
whatever it is there is some element of
that layer and we don't really
understand consciousness not to say
whether the thin or thick line would be
between those two but so I have to
assume there would be a way to do that
since we already to something we have a
limited form of that in play mm-hmm
densho story enough says greetings from
Bulgaria what's your favorite alien race
from any media in terms of being truly
alien and not just were painted humans
Oh hmm you know it my boy you merely
told us about Star Trek examples um but
I told structure it's not a very good
source for those um probably the most
alien aliens they had with the Borg all
the abortions the board the I look
watered down after a while not gonna
take a potshot at Star Trek Voyager it's
too easy but that would be the example
we see a little bit in ds9 with like the
wormhole aliens too but a lot of times
it was like Star Trek or Star Wars it's
just you know repainted faces
maybe the desk a lot of virus or the
piggies from Orson Scott Card's end or
series um if I'm more time thing I'm
sure I would be able to come with some
examples but it's tricky because you
know your most alien intelligences would
probably be something like an AI you
know an alien AI is likely differ from
or even an AI we make is like they're
different from us a lot more than
something
it's also had a clause we have Darwin's
lateral let's see al who say go ask so
thank you very much do you think we'll
be able to avoid aging by 2050
I won't rule it out but I wouldn't you
know thought he was a long time to make
improvements and it could turn out to be
very simple problem but it's possible I
don't think we get there that fast of
slowing aging down absolutely we already
do that P if you look at people who are
in their 70s 80s nowadays they learn
much better health than people will in
their 50s or 60s and I say oh well
that's just minor improvements here and
they are it's not really slowing the
aging process
well the aging process is not some magic
clock it is that you know it's a
combination of DNA wearing down certain
cells plaquing up in terms of you know
they die off they mutate they build
plaques and garbage up in the body and
you know things just waiting down in
general though it's it don't think of
aging is really wearing down like a call
and everything we do that slows that
down a little bit is genuine anti-aging
medicine you know it's it's that's all
medicine is life extension and almost
all of them have an anti a chance back
to them so will we slow aging by 2050
absolutely we already have will we we
stopped you in a reverse aging effects
maybe a few of I mean it's not gonna be
one single effect you'll have like you
know at least six that we know of but
papi dozens and we might learn how to
turn one of them back or slow one of
them down a sniffle in a pair of the
others and you know it's it might be
that the way people look age wise is
gonna start very you know law because we
might master whatever causes skin look
auto you know you know lost a certain
structure was that make you sag down in
terms of skin that might be something
Mastro very early on for instance and so
been but he looks like they are you know
thirty until they flop over there you
felt it so do it like eighty or ninety
but there's a lot of uncertainties and I
don't think we're gonna solve those not
be oh say we've reversed AG in the next
thirty years
um Luis Gomez ass
I'll handheld laser weapons possible yes
laser pointer is a laser weapon it's
often to remind guys my unit we had a
lot of laser instrumentation that came
to us when we hosted for Iraq and the
laser pointer seemed to be very popular
one not to be confused with like the
laser dot size you see on weapons like
the CCO optic that is a holographic
sight it does not project a dot onto
people but a lot of those lasers even
annoying that they have military
applications and they'll fall be
considered a weapon if you shine a class
4 laser on people's eyes that's gonna
hurt them really bad so those are
handheld as the classic laser rifle that
blows holes new people never and well I
will never always like to say void or
devil energy does you know you can take
the same amount of energy from from a
laser rifle pulse if you have a
batteries can release that fast and
giving into a solid mass projection of a
slug and it's gonna do more damage
it's very nice a fast weapon but and
it's not really your ideal man portable
small arm let's see Thank You Adam
Nichols
Nicholas excuse me it would go to
climate change how do you see
international co-op needed to build huge
mega structures objectively you'll be
beneficial to them but so is resolving
climate change that doesn't see me
walking I tend to disagree the lastest
ocean layer we do see a lot folks
smoking a lot towards international and
local you know there's a lot of
scientific and technological research on
that matter that gets shared around and
we don't you know maybe it's not as fast
or as much as we'd like in the right
areas but don't underplay the
development that we have had so far
which is pretty impressive as to
cooperation to build huge mega
structures I don't think so I don't
think you'd actually building these
things if they require a total global
you know unification on something at
that I mean we a skyscraper doesn't
require global unification it doesn't
require national yeah unification and
you'd have to ask why would people build
some of these things if it required all
that effort when you can build smaller
ones so I think if you build something
like a full-blown only also it or it
will be because your industrial output
would allow you to build many thousands
or such things if you really want
and so you see like an individual nation
builds one but until then I think all
individual corporation until then I
think what you see would be much smaller
stations and you'd have cooperation on
those but that would be hit and miss and
and as needed and as interest took
people in that direction
[Music]
Thank You mo Johnson thoughts on plant
hybrid by ologies ie sapient alien that
does photosynthesis to eat less
recyclers own co2 etc I eat al J tattoos
for humans could we for the AL J tattoos
reference it's been suggested you could
build in photosynthetic algae a tattoos
essentially on people that would serve
as a solar panel going organic solar
panel panel for instrumentation or you
know post augmentation usually speaking
photosynthesis and mobility I'm not
going to go too well together interpret
have another power storage they had but
I think you could see that or maybe
something photoelectric we were going to
talk about that in the non-carbon-based
aliens episode in mid-april though so i
will pass on that mostly they okis would
you actually talk about an option of it
but it would depend a lot on the local
environment it was a very alien one
compared to us you might see you might
see that they really didn't need as much
power to move around I like as we was
discussing the Lowell low gravity plants
when there might be cases where
something like that might be more
effective Thank You Hawaiian bail
Aloha gratulations mini misko's laddie
say apparently everyone does agree that
beer looks better so booboo master says
what is your view on bioethics do you
talk about multiple trans human
problematics but I was never figured out
what was your opinion on those matters
in an ethical way aside from the science
good a mouth might say I am a huge fan
of Saiga 9 and many other folks who have
you know popular science down the years
but I haven't noticed that in any almost
any field of expertise it's not just the
minute the sciences a lot of times when
they're done explain to you I'm not
trying to call anyone out individually
on this because it's something we'll all
get once you have myself included but um
everyone's gotta writes an opinion but
often when they be done explaining how
the science war
or what you can do with that they tell
you what they think you should do with
it or what they think the answer is from
an ethical philosophical perspective
where folks who do that for living - you
know the rest of us do science and we'll
let the guys in the ethics that
Department kind of handle that a bit
more if you go through a sequence of
episodes and you don't know my opinion
on something good you know that that's
probably the way it should be I mean
it's probably not too surprising though
obviously I tend to feel well on the
bioethics concerned is the big one is me
thinking about talking about it and then
the big one is always look for something
very similar that we've already dealt
with it doesn't SSA mean it's the right
answer but it is you know the the basis
for that so like for instance if we
started using simulations of animal
minds to run things like a robotic lawn
mower you know so your your local lawn
mower that you have running around the
field is an AI your land keepers an AI
and it's got the brain of a sheep
presumably a digital one rather than
then what we hooked up they are whether
or not that's ethical is a very valid
question if it's something failure right
to do that sheep but at the same time or
that that AI sheep you'd have to ask is
it any different than the more
circumstance we already have where of
course we harvest them before and meat
already which doesn't say that's not a
right or wrong but it's it's that's not
a new issue same for a lot of things
like genetic tweaking of people it's a
new specific technology but if say well
people might be trying to advantage
their kids by giving a genetic tweak to
make them smarter or more handsome or
more athletic and say well that's a fair
point at the same time though people
already do that people you know self
select mates based on what would tend to
make the health your kids are
subconscious of what they think
certainly every parent tries to give
their kid the best opportunities they
can give them so whether or not that's a
morally correct thing to do it's not
really a completely new issue when you
into something like genetic engineering
cloning things like that so that's kind
of one for me on bioethics is take your
time think it out think it through
properly in a public forum and try to
see what you already figured out your
site that's very close to that and it
might be that you say well this is so
close as I think it's fun
or you might talk the other way around
say well this thing we've always been
doing that we've thought about twice in
this new context maybe we should stop
doing that too but you know ultimately
when it comes to what the right or wrong
answer is on things like that you know I
I like to eat my audience is pretty
smart and even that wasn't the case you
know you make up your minds and things
like that and if you get an impression
of what my own opinions on these things
are it might have slipped through or
maybe you're just assuming I would tend
to agree with you on things or whichever
the case is but the ideal is that you
should come away from the episode on
these ethical questions just not knowing
of my viewers and a lot of times
actually I'm half-life xantho from know
we know ways
thank you very much says don't touch
your face and yes unfortunately I am at
home right now and I am a bit of a
obsessive compulsive hand wash or so
it's probably not an issue but you know
I can was telling people chug it out
that happened even when you are at home
because it makes it so much easier to
not do it when you're not at home so
let's see Alex Hall Paul says do you
think kovin 19 will start a trend
towards a global government uh I mean I
can only kind of guess at the moment
based on how folks overreacting to it
that it almost ended to the exact
opposite as law folks doing quarantines
and and not best pleased with their
neighbors quarantines but you know I I
would put that one more into the
political category where I really would
want to touch that too much one always
hopes a crisis is gonna bring folks
close together and we always are all
aiming to be close together and towards
a friendship but that doesn't
necessarily mean that you are going to
want to have a unified government or the
in like that - and I'm I know would
leave it pretty much at that I
personally you know again I walk in
local government so I tend to like all
my friends go in local government we
always feel like the state is trying to
overly control what we're doing locally
so we can't innovate and the states say
the same thing about the federal
government while doing the same to the
local governments the federal knows them
and so forth and there's always those
arguments and it's the same when we get
in softly are you building a horizontal
platform or vertical platform sometimes
standardization helps sometimes it does
not and those tend to walk
the local selected and where we like to
go to actually you know innovate a bit
almost always Tendo you subconsciously
be a bit opposed more unification of
things like that well recognizing
there's not a lot of benefits to this in
this case by case basis not a lot of
those things
Glenn I'll Frank asks have you had any
sci-fi books that you knew were directly
influenced by any of your videos yes
actually one of them gets mentioned in
the last episode I vote which will come
out in like June they all a few blind
cloaks novel which oh my um I can't
remember the four name of it it's
probably see on the shelf behind me the
man at all I think Brian Clark Tennessee
tale or a friend of mine he I think I've
influenced his more recent walk because
I wasn't at the book so probably yes I
that by the way that's the upcoming for
those of you Obama voters fans the
fourth book the source for Ben door is
kind of come out sometime in the summer
is best guess and that I post a enjoyed
it to quite a lot so that's a great
vital let's see but as to allow there's
a lot of books I've got somewhere out
here various copies of books women sent
to me by this so that person who's
written ones that was come inspired by
it and you know I it's always a nice
feeling to know your walks could
actually have any influence on folks but
be that as it may not that many X I tend
to be more in the classic sci-fi let's
see
Mako's Sun Sonic Mountain Marco Sonic
racer
I'm sure I've come in before all the
interesting names of intends to have on
YouTube heal question on what timeframe
you think that humans would be able to
completely change their body it's like
changing DNA to make it whatever they
want with their bodies one thousand
years one hundred more or less which
episode wasn't we were discussing that
in recent life it seems like a lot of
the questions always seem to be episodes
that we have coming up very soon and
maybe that's because they're most on my
mind or maybe they'll Tribune other
people's minds for the same material
that's making me think I need to write
an episode on it
to completely change the DNA in your
body that is something we could
potentially
depends on how much you mean completely
changed like change yourself in your oak
tree probably a while because you got a
lot more things to work out there but to
completely change the DNA human
postman's body I'd say probably a
century probably century and again
that's inside of human template if
you're trying to innovate with
completely new life in terms of like way
outside the human template maybe long
ago especially Mir to consider that
they'd probably be a lot of restrictions
on slowly researching developing and
studying that to make sure we didn't
actually stop producing you know Khan
Noonien Singh or their horrible mutant
zombies or whatever the case might be
thank you Robert Flores
I feel sled launched rockets from
equatorial areas and mountains are not
considered by modern space programs
being able to give a rocket a pre
initial speed of 3,000 miles now saves a
lot of fuel mass it does it's not a
linear thing because again the going up
to that rest of that speed is gonna cost
a lot more fuel but you know to launch
from mountain like down in Ecuador
there's some that of interest to us for
that really advantageous but it's kind
like the opening is that unless you're
doing a lot of launches you know off
your costumes on a big problem with
these right now unless you're doing a
lot of launches it's a question but not
you really wanna go to all the effort to
build that infrastructure it's a lot of
infrastructure to do something like that
and not just the ramp going up the side
thing you got you have to move a lot of
exports down there got to serve all the
actual equipment down there and all
those other wonderful things and then
you have to actually have a location
nearby where those folks can come live
want to live and have installed a
various services for their families up
with them so be a bit of a time you know
but I think that we will start seeing
people take advantage that as we see a
bigger output in terms of how after more
launching oleg boots asks do you think
bioinformatics will get big these days
in the immediate future
bioinformatics yes you know that's one
of those thomas y40 kicked around so i'm
never sure what its exact definition is
and i think it overlaps with all the
other ones information technology
involving biological things might be one
way to look at that i'm not really
positive what the definition would be if
that's just like studying people
was longitudinal data individual stuff
about microbiology or more the local
culture and it's it's net health is war
but yeah yeah pretty much everything
involving biology and medicine is
probably get a little bit extra boost in
the coming years
Amanda Diaz a Star Trek Picard like it I
hate it I love to see Patrick Stewart
back in but the simple answer is I have
not watched any of it yet when new
science fiction shows come out I always
I mean how sometimes I watch the pilot
but in general I wait - the whole
seasons done and then I've been binge
watch that thing so not there yet I
still don't actually finish the whole
season one of Star Trek discovery which
I I'm kind of waiting to see if people
say it gets better or not in future
seasons four I lock into that so but
Star Trek with called Patrick Stewart
and you know I mean brent spiner that
was all you know always the folks we
love scene from Star Trek next
generation Jonathan Frakes available and
all those wonderful actors but I'm not
sure for the bald ones in the new one I
remember seeing it Prince minor was
there well which of the case happens to
be I will give you a pinyon it when I
get around to washing it which we after
the seasons complete the Mason a door
what propulsion systems do you think
will be used for all the exploration
beyond the asteroid belt always fusion
would be a nice one of course but I
would tend to think you're you're
outside the asteroid belt one would
probably be laser propulsion and then
something to slow down the other end
maybe something to go out there and
build like a mere system the things of
arms of interest we were talking about
that a bit more in the summer
entrepreneur episode I just coming up in
May but you know we did talk about a
little bit in colonizing Pluto and I
think colonizing Neptune - that you get
these arrays of things set up around the
bigger objects that you use kind of like
push things around and so they're very
good for speeding is up there and
they're very good for slowing them down
yeah I have those at the end points so
you just have to bill it the first time
out near the object of interest then it
just depends of what your other
proportion systems of when you after
that all right we got time for a few
more questions John Miller asks how
realistic is non-carbon-based
seems to make Li publicity improbable
impossible excuse me
probably oh no that is an episode we
have coming up in mid-april I want to
say the 26 now 23rd all at the 16th the
16th I would say that it is not terribly
likely though it's so hard for us to
have to say at this time and we're going
to explore the options for it and one
has remember it all comes down to a
quantity thing let's say that that only
one out of a billion walls develops life
that's not carbon-based as opposed to a
billion was developed life is
carbon-based and say won a million
develop carbon-based life so 1
quadrillion develop you know non
carbon-based life well the universe
kalamoon quadrillion stalls in and so
you might see it happen and of course we
don't know what those odds are there's
no reason to assume we won in Quadro you
might be one in a 10 2 liter 54th or
something worse than that ok but we will
look at that in that episode Thank You
Adam Nicholas hey Isaac is there a
reason that powerful repelling magnets
aren't often mentioned as a launch
option also do you plan to do an episode
on techniques for sea stay in order
fischeri Islands well we did do an
episode on sea studying in order for
islands I know if you mean a follow-up
to that but maybe it does seem like
there's a lot more to discuss on an
topic I usually like to wait a year or
two for follow me up an episode though
unless it's you're just call us be ready
at that moment as to magnets for
launching um you know magnetic
propulsion like the railgun system we
looked at mass drivers I really do think
that is a very good option but it's
harder to use in an atmosphere so it's
always struck me something you'd be more
likely use on you know atmosphere less
moons and asteroids or actually up in
orbit it would be nice to develop it as
a platform to launch from Earth but if
you're at that point you talk about
almost the same level of effort is
involved in the actors for systems like
the last remove with the orbital ring
and those are obviously magnetic too but
they're not made not repelling the
vessel so much as they are magnetically
propelling the stuff that's keeping
anything held up though you can use it
to propel the vessel Ostrom they've
actually use it for both thank you Chris
Sisk
and Andrew Hickman asked you Android to
Androids Dream of Electric lawnmowers if
you're missing that reference that would
be the philip k dick Stu Androids Dream
of Electric Sheep which was the basis
for the Blade Runner franchise which is
wonderful and we'll do a last question
well we've got time for couple more I
would say hmm two Androids Dream of
Electric alumnos I think we actually
didn't talk about lawnmowers in the
episode this Thursday - huh
let's see it would be interesting to
know if you actually need a dream cycle
on all these things - and you say well
you don't have to have a dream cycle you
know sleep cycle on I know it official
intelligence but if you're modeling them
much around a human brain and that would
probably be the easiest safest way to
start off with is the model amount
existing human or mammal brains and
there's treat them as as you you know
get them running then they presumably
you still do need that sleep cycle and
then there's always a question of if you
find some way around that can you apply
that to normal people and say well you
know if you could eliminate the need for
sleep you have basically 50% more time
each day at least I hope so a lot of
people do not let them soak it up for a
night Steve and I didn't used to but
there would be another bit of life
advice always get a full night's sleep
yeah but I don't know it might be
interesting to see what kind of dreams
and artificial intelligence would I
actually have if they were built enough
around a human template and might turn
out that with really complicated systems
like noir networks that you might
actually need to start building things
like that into them we just don't know
enough about why we actually sleep and
it's probably not a single reason but it
has to have some kind of advantage
because you're pretty vulnerable while
sleeping one thought might I'm very
vulnerable and if it wasn't a pretty
necessary thing you would expect that
would already have disappeared out of
you know the natural selection issues
okay so we take one last question
mom Saul asked what are your thoughts on
neural link we discussed that quite a
lot in the mind augmentation video and
the I know there's no episode besides
mind argumentation we looked at in my
machine interfaces that was the recent
episode on that and I believe that was
some of last year mine machine
interfaces I think we're going to see a
lot more of those in terms of very
simple things it's not be as complicated
focused anything we just plug in now
you'll go to the internet I think we you
Tennessee is a lot more small things
like here's the my machine interface
that is just one tiny little chip in
there that helps to mod or the you know
the blood sugar levels in your brain for
instance or is keeping track of you know
how much you know where your positions
are to kind of bring in other data or is
telling you what your position is or you
know is involved in a heads-up display
on your eyeball I think you see a lot of
tiny little things as opposed to it
neatly as we say the unified smart phone
or PC approach where it's all on one
thing that might come later on but I
think you'd have started a lot smaller
and single focus as to no link itself I
think it's great I think they're doing
wonderful research on but until they
actually have a specific product that's
ready for real testing on people I tend
to just kind of take it as nicely
theoretical research um all right so I
guess let me take one last one if I can
get to one last one let's see I think if
somebody asks their whether or not we'd
expect the Internet to be going down
anytime soon I would say that the
Internet is probably the last thing that
we're likely to see dropping any time in
the future with this crisis um because
again it's so handy for people to stick
on to and you know everyone's kind of
forced to stay at home for their
recreation and again you moose was
already pretty used to spending a lot of
time online and in fact we use you've
been telling people to not do that so
much because it's not so terribly
healthy in many ways - so but I think
it'll be interesting to see what the
changeover rates in terms of a lot of
the classic recreation courses more
online stuff is going to be after you
know we've already seen quite a bump it
up and see what the changeover that's
gonna be over the course of this year
when we actually have some good data on
there and see what it indicates but
always new problems new advantages new
solutions and so forth anyway we're
gonna head and close out there for the
day and just will see you all on
Thursday for the episode in the meantime
stay safe stay healthy and stay up be
so that will wrap us up for the day I
want to thank everyone for joining us
and again if we didn't get your question
feel free to post as a comment below and
I'll try to get to it this evening
also you can continue the conversation
at any of the forms on Facebook reddit
discord or all website
Isak all thought Matt thanks for joining
us and we'll see you Thursday
[Music]
