folks often wonder what technology could
replace gunpowder for small arms and
suggestions include everything from
phasors to laser rifles to
electromagnetic railguns but anti-matter
if producible and storable beats these
are the default way of storing
anti-matter the penny trap is already
similar in shape to a bullet and if we
ever do get warm temperature
superconductors we could have a future
where either gunpowder or a very tiny
amount of antimatter is used to fire the
bullets or power the railgun and the
bullet itself is a really small shell
which on hitting the target crushes that
Penny trap even if only one percent of
the mass of that bullet was anti-matter
a one kilogram magazine of ten thousand
tiny little shells would carry 250
kilotons of explosive potential in it
each one the equivalent of thermobaric
weapons like the Moab fuel air bombs
this allows a lone infantryman to
eradicate large structures with a single
trigger pull level cities or fight giant
Mecca Kaiju or Cthulhu himself
