good afternoon everyone and welcome to
the sfia monthly live stream q a
we'll get started in just a moment but
go ahead and start getting your
questions in the chat window so our
materials can start relaying those
tubing as soon as we start please try to
keep the questions concise and watch
your spelling and try to be polite to
others in the chat we usually go for
about an hour so you probably want to
grab a drink and a snack though we'll
take a break about halfway through too
with all that said welcome and let's get
started
good afternoon everyone and welcome to a
monthly live stream q a here with sfia
we'll be wrapping a month up with
questions about the episodes the channel
and anything that crosses the audience's
mind as usual we'll be joined by my
lovely host and co-host and wife Sarah
who will be taking your questions from
the audience and as we usually do we ask
please put those into the moderatos as
early as you can but typed well and
clearly so we don't get confused about
was as with the vacuum raccoon incident
from the last couple years back
foreign
did you ever find out what a vacuum
raccoon was no but I was a vacuum rocket
and I was actually a vacuumac who was
still stood a lot better I like the idea
of relaxing raccoon maybe the one from
Guardians of the Galaxy ah is that what
it was well we have got about 91 fans
watching at the moment and Albert
Jackson is telling us that he is having
a ham and cheese sandwich for lunch and
he would like to know what you think
about an interplanetary exchange student
program similar to how some countries do
uh Exchange program with high school or
college students now how would that work
on a planetary scale
uh I guess depends if you have FTL or
not like between Mars and Earth that's
you know mini month Voyage but between
like here in Alpha centaurs like I'm
gonna send my kid off to Alvin Centauri
being exchange students and they come
home and say uh you know 20 years just
four years older and you get noticed
back for them 10 years ago saying they
just got there on their face and you're
having fun in high school
um you could do it I think the problem
is that exchange student programs I mean
I'm sure you would have them I couldn't
see how you couldn't have them between
two developed plants the same system but
it would get to be I think a bit of a
logistical Nightmare and probably a
relatively small program something to
begin with so I don't know how you
really administrate that one though with
so much time like because you actually
have to give them education and routes
and I should have really good engines
hmm
that's true and of course would they be
coming back right that's a good point
and at what time frame
um they probably would not be children
anymore or young adults on that time
frame I suppose an inner planetary scale
it could be done weeks on month of
voyage though I'd be curious and that's
probably important question when was the
first time we actually did exchange
students across the Atlantic
um because I would be willing to bet
that was a bit more of a conflicted
process prior to passenger Jets it
really being a big thing so imagine you
have to come over on a steamo boat
yeah probably less likely so kind of in
that same futuristic mindset Elizabeth
Davis would like to know she said it's
amazing to think about how the rooms in
a home have changed in the last 100
years and to have you considered doing a
video of how rooms like the kitchen the
bathroom and the laundry might change in
the future or I suppose the unspoken
question is if they might look different
in space than they do on Earth I guess
the future of interior designs a valley
of Point we've talked about that a
little bit here and there in other
contexts like call garages that's that
is definitely a new thing versus like
the chicken coop that almost every house
even in cities would have had probably
all the way up to the 30s I'd say in a
lot of cases those started kind of
vashing them kind of made a reappearance
you know in the last couple decades too
um but I think you know what would you
say would be the next thing you see in
most houses these days what's the big
change well it has been well set up for
good Wi-Fi for instance maybe you want
to wireless power transmission at some
point where the plugs how many plugs you
have like the house we have was uh used
to be owned by a radio manager and he
had like a phone line in every room all
labeled there was like 24 phone lines
it's really weird but why not weird but
for the time we're gonna look really
guys but now they're just outmoded and
they're there right
um on the flip side that like you've got
Amazon delivery right how do I start
changing households so that they can
handle drone and automatic delivery very
easily safely and quickly because you
can incentivize be like well I have this
right system that we just hung up to
it'll just give you the thing and we can
move on and that saves US money so we
incentivize that you know what's was the
Amazon Prime effect on the outside of a
house so
I still remember the first year we got
married and you were saying that you
know it wasn't going to be too long
before they have a double-sided
refrigerator where it opens on the
outside so that your drone can put your
food and groceries in and opens on the
inside so you can take them out and I
believe you had some sort of Barcode
Scanner in there so that they could tell
when you were getting below a certain
point in the particular Grocery and just
automatically reorder it for you right
before we got married this was we got
married right after covet head so we
were discussing things that we hit and I
just don't invite that one episode up
was uh What new technologies might be
the cause for the future and I said well
we're probably going to have a lot of
grocery delivery in this next decade
that would be a big thing and I hadn't
expected to rule out quite as fast as it
had but you know then we got blessed by
grandfather Noble with covid and uh yeah
thanks things sometimes crisis can
accelerate good new technologies while
they out
Adrian lesnai says so I know I made this
as a joke before but I'd like to repost
this as a formal petition from the
peanut gallery can you do an episode on
hygiene in space obviously taking a
shower could become a hazard and
um
what other novel hazards might exist you
know and I speak from the the core of my
heart as an old army veteran uh not
taking a shower can become a health
hazard
and especially from your friends you
know or if you wish to be longly married
without Navy names I I remember a fellow
now you know who was forcibly showered
one time after we've been deployed for
some while as he was forgetting these
things as we all live in tight quarters
and that's got nothing on what like a
submarine has and uh the space station
for instance those even worse it is
the the every every spaceship that we
have that spends long protracted times
up there with the crew tones in a grungy
grungy place where every keyboard
controller is covered in a sticky mix of
like old food dead human skin cells and
and you know grease so we had to find
ways to handle that gravity turns out to
be amazingly useful for hygiene and uh I
don't know where we take that too far in
terms of being like an episode but I
don't know somebody wrote me an email
this morning where they they came up
with the idea for an episode that I
instantly loved was a common
misconceptions about the universe maybe
they went on that I think that's
definitely gonna be an episode so in may
now maybe we could do one on account
misconceptions about space travel let me
make a note on that real quick
well while you're making that note about
space travel we've had a couple of
questions and if I could figure out
where they went here somehow I managed
to lose the list of questions
um we had a lot of them coming in though
so
I might have to close that and reopen it
to get it
sorry about that
we had some questions about living in
the Kuiper belt and
what would be involved with that so
while I'm trying to find the specific
ones I think I actually have them on the
screen if I said if I can find one of
them real quick is the nature of a
velocity that you'll always have really
complicated
um
technical problems probably wow there's
a lot of a lot of
I see one from Miami's last capitalist
they're 10 donation thank you very much
what's the fastest way to disable a
planet for building materials including
the molten core and how fast could that
be done
um seven days
but not not me not any clean fashion
um the amount of power you need to
December the Earth is about seven days
with a solo output so and you know
that's the entire Focus concentrate
energy the Sun so and you're not really
doing that in an organized fashion
usually I see when it comes to taking
things apart any kind of classical
fashion like you you retail for me to
play things like that I think decades
just avoid overheating the players like
your impact is going to cause a global
warming effect of several degrees simply
from the mechanical waste heat of
everything you're doing when it comes
taking out Applause I figure that's
that's a you know fastest assembly of a
planet for the purpose of Union
resourced off it is multi-century Affair
at the very minimum especially because
that core has got to cool down you know
you can vaporize it then where's all you
know what are you gonna wrap it around
with some kind of big net they vaporize
and use centrifugal force to you know
spit it out to what you get possible and
but what project are you doing that you
need it for that quickly
that could be an episode too
quick turnarounds rapid yes that's some
sword Let's do an episode yeah exactly
um so scooter GSP says what is your
favorite sci-fi spaceship in terms of
realism and your favorite in terms of
Aesthetics and coolness Factor oh
there's a lot of them I mean
I'd have to give a hat tip both to the
Enterprise and then the serenity from
from Firefly uh both in terms of feeling
like there was a lot of effort in trying
to look at how the crew's day-to-day
lives would go over the years Voyager
wildhands Falls to show did so that too
uh one of my favorite ships was actually
the The Liberator from blake7 which you
have to really be back in time over that
when it came out when I was born it was
already like season two a special
effects budget was sad even by BBC
standards at the time so you like Boston
Doctor Who Tom Baker you are special
thanks
so you're not really one of those shows
has been cut off but actually if you've
seen the the new Star Wars Andor series
uh if you've never seen Blake 7 you'd be
like wow this was clearly based off of
this because it really has a lot of the
same flavor not you know that they they
it feels like if you're going to do a
reboot of like seven Star Wars and it
would be it but that was a cool
spaceship what's the best one for
Aesthetics
um
wow I'm having problems thinking of
other words at the moment that's let me
ask you a question like let me think
about this and you can't remember one
example somebody I asked like doing my
checks in the house for the live stream
say something and then we can think
like what yeah oh how about another
question yeah
the Heart of Gold from Douglas Adams
they'll be the other one I'd love to
have but without its food to spend so
it's it's horrible tea dispenser okay
so Clash here is the question we had on
O'Neill cylinders in a baseline 5 by 20
mile O'Neill cylinder how much would the
caloris effect
Cornelius effect
affect everyday life How might people
adapt in things like sports or other
activities
um you know without actually sitting
down to do the math I couldn't give you
an exact figure on the corollos effect
there but it would be it's significant
right you
um you know it's significant Earth for
instance which uh but it's going to be
even more there
um doing the and this might be a
Pocketful but I hope that during the
Falkland Islands invasion of the 80s
because they were firing the West Was
off in the southern hemisphere when the
very stuff off in the southern
hemisphere they had an accounted for
that and it caused a lot of them to miss
right and that's the effect of going you
know down across the the equator
um but in space on a space station like
that
it's it might be naked eye visible you
know you might really actually doing
something like that like a golf ball
swing especially because it might go up
high say for baseball it's it's actually
going up enough you get something a
couple of feet up in the air on a
cylinder side size it actually is
getting one or two percent less gravity
at the top of that you know that is
something you would absolutely see on
something smaller like the Cabana
station
um which is you know more in the uh
hundreds of meters now it's you know
many kilometers across range but I would
say that it wouldn't be enough that
you'd have to reinvent new sports but it
would be enough that people would
probably bring it up but like records
were being said it's like oh it's it's
much easier to hit it out of the park in
that direction so we need to move the
wall on the baseball field so that wall
is further out things like that could
happen I'm just looking it it appears
like the uh projection on the camera
stopped for you did it
um well it stopped on my side so I'm not
sure if it's just in a cooling phase but
while you're looking at that I'll ask
you another question we have one here
from Matthew Schultz can we sustain our
population I do see you waving so okay
can we sustain our population growth if
every woman had a baby every nine months
around 10 to 15 percent growth rate
um I mean how long have you seen a rate
like that that I would probably miss
that one is unsustainable in you know in
the sense of you could take many months
or years of that happening would have a
truly extreme effect but
you'd have to actually have the time and
resources to educate your kids you know
between things so they can actually
start doing the follow-up rule you'd see
some big social changes for that in
terms of food production uh if something
you can't ramp up to feed like you you
could feed twice the human population
without having to do huge ecological
damage which comes down to it but you
need more tractors you know you need
more hoses you need to suddenly create
Factory that can spin out twice as much
as something that really wasn't that
high demand and ran you know 24 hour
shifts before those kind of supply chain
issues as we have found out especially
these last few years
tend to sink you know major sudden
shifts so I don't know that you can
sustain a growth rate like that for too
long if we started having other issues
obviously especially aside from the fact
that it takes more than nine months to
actually develop a baby maybe on an
annual basis though uh if people pretty
much Maxi out there they're child
viewing it's like every household was
having eight kids that would have a that
would have a rough impact uh 230 years
down the road though a lot of that would
be massive growth in a lot of sectors
too so it would be a lot of good and a
lot of bad mix in there but it would
certainly be a lot of turbulence you
know this is new says hi Isaac and Sarah
since DD Fusion is apparently easier to
ignite than dhe3 fusion and it exhausts
free he3 is there any real need to mine
he3 from gas giants
um well okay the thing on that and
actually let me let me go back on a
tangent there if the question was how
long before we max out like the
population of the purpose of a Dyson
Sphere if you all you know instead of
doubling uh once per Centrio quadrupling
once per Century if you're doing that
once per generation that's going to
shrink your max amount of dice if you
have something like 4 000 a.m like a
thousand you know so it could happen
pretty quickly in context like that uh
now back to the fusion one
um
it's not that we want uh helium-3 Fusion
because it's easier to do it obviously
is not it's that we want it because it's
a neutronic right neutrons are horribly
destructive and they they are pretty
much uncontainable they do damage all
sorts of things and they we when you're
trying to simulate a star in the first
place having lots of radiation damage
the inside of your Fusion reactor is
viewed as non-optimal so if we can get a
neutronic fusion walking through the
helium-3 reactions that's our preference
to do if we can make that productive
it's in our first line but it would
actually be handy we could make a fusion
reactor tomorrow that went on deuterium
great that's wonderful infinite power
supply Force for all practical purposes
we'd still be putting a lot of money
into doing helium 3 because that's what
lets you do a Lido reactor doesn't need
as much shielding maybe
um that's the one that makes the
maintenance constantly go down but
um
we really don't need to mine the gas
giants for helium-3 unless we had that
going on but we also would need them for
material anyway so we have plenty of the
oceans but yeah it's it's one of those
things where you actually have a fusion
economy mining the gas giants isn't that
hard to do so it's a very easy Source if
your economy requires it but you only
need it when you actually have an
economy that's fully invested that way
because there's plenty enough on the
earth form you know experimentation
early years of running it
so Phil Spooner says have you heard of
Lee cronin's metallic cells I believe it
could be used to allow non-organic
technology to regenerate or otherwise
self-repair
uh possibly I've only heard about them
like in about that much so I don't want
to comment on them too much it's popped
up on the news feed so to speak trying
to actually find things that are good
vessels for nanotech or good vessels for
not being attacked by the immune system
uh as in Vader is probably the biggest
thing right now for doing good
perfective nanotechnology besides
portable power supply and in that
although that might people have been
abusing Wireless transmission very high
level induction inside the devices and
you have a little Wireless transmission
field on your belt or yours let's say on
your belt is only like a power plant in
their head
which I can react on your skull yeah no
so
D Craigen says could the universe be
finite but not loop on itself like some
kind of impassable barrier
um can you read that one again
could the universe be finite but not
loop on itself like some kind of
unpassable barrier
um
just you know you could hit a brick wall
as a war it's that because it's
expanding as fast as it is it could
still be fine now you're never going to
reach the edge of it
um in terms of the cosmology on that we
have a lot of speculation on the math
end of what seems to work but we have to
keep in mind that when we speculate
about something only based on math and
not empirical evidence we tend to
eventually get ourselves into trouble
that's why I try to encourage people to
give math as a nationally pure science
uh it is not that good about predicting
what the universe looks like
um and we tend to get ourselves in
trouble when we try to assume that's the
case we have no evidence about what the
edge of the universe looks like other
than the fact that it's a gigantic wall
of plasma what does the edge of the
universe look like age gigantic wall
with plasma that so we see the cosmic
microwave background radiation uh and
that's not really the edge the universe
has as far as we can see
um
there could actually be a big bubble and
when you get the edge of it there that's
just it you stop you disintegrate you
are turned back you bounce off a thing
or you just wander off into an awful lot
of empty nothing that is turns out there
with space time outside after all we
don't really know and it should be
physically impossible to find out so
I cannot answer that question but other
than say maybe
all right well we currently are up over
300 guests watching at the moment and
I'm trying to make sure I get through a
lot of these questions so
um we have had a lot of comments on
whether or not hygienic underwear and
body bags would be important in the
question we answered earlier about
hygiene in space so I think that could
be a very potentially productive episode
we used to tell you about one friend of
mine who uh he woke up in a body bag
after five of fights he just passed out
they needed some way to if I'm blood
loss yeah they use some sanitary way to
transport him on a helicopter so he woke
up he was zipped up
can be a very startling experience I'm
sure multi-purpose usage
floor horbeck says all fundamental
particles are Point particles without
size without interaction the universe
could fit in a zero Dimension when did
the poly exclusion principles start
making sense uh well we don't know that
all fundamental particles all plant-like
particles I mean what spaces gets really
really real at that stage but it was a
certain amount of energy right energy
and time will connected with position
momentum or connected things like that
so you can't really say this is really a
point in life particle and I tend to be
in the camp that says point-like things
don't actually exist I I tend to assume
that there is a minimum size but that's
one of those things where you really
can't check it if you've seen on episode
uh things which will never exist
um we sit around talk about like how
much energy you'd have to have to detect
something that was like a Planck length
and orders imagine if we get there you
already have enough energy in your
detecting wave your really high energy
gamma ray that uh it would collapse as a
black hole before you get actually check
up like that and see what was there so
we really can't look much beyond the
subatomic scale because you're talking
to that point where anything's smelling
that that actually had any significant
amount of energy would already have you
know hit that density where it would be
a black hole so it puts some real
limitations on our ability to seed out
that scale what was the rest of the
question I feel like I missed that
sounded like a great answer
um I just was laughing because someone
commented a poor guy died of the plague
whoa I'm not dead yet give me another
chance
um Christian carello says thank you for
your super chat if we had the ability
whoops
if we had the ability to create entire
planets exactly like Earth would it be a
better alternative to terraforming
planets or even space habitats if we had
the ability to create plants exactly
like a wolf yes
um
I mean
it's really Mass intensive to make a
plant size oil you gotta remember like
on a space habitat you might have a
couple of meters of you know structural
habitat fake Garden whatever it is
underneath your feet uh whereas the
Earth has a couple thousand you know
kilojoules of that or miles I was at 360
miles radius and
6600 kilometers radius something like
that's a lot right that is huge that is
hundreds of thousands of times what
you're standing on right
um you know space habitat and that's not
how much more space you can make to live
in so I feel like that's always gonna
have the advantage and if not you can do
a show board where you pack a lot of it
in there and then you throw a matter in
the center or don't if you want like the
hydro shell idea so yeah so the mega
structural compendium for details
um and oh by the way for those curious I
just got done riding the spaceship Drive
compendium Advanced spaceship Drive
compendium it's like two hours long too
and uh I'm holding off I'm recording
that I think I'll probably talk soon to
help you record when the time comes do
you think it'll touch on things like
this question from crossover Maniac he's
thank you for your Super Chat he says
general Fusion uses molten lithium lead
in their reactor and compresses plasma
absorb neutrons and breed titanium what
do you think of that design
yes okay titanium's week or two but
that's that's purely a fictional
substances
um when it comes to comparing fusionary
ad designs I have a rule about not
touching that because I'm it's I'm
forced I'm not a specialist enough in
nuclear to really be able to rate system
a versus system B and second I was
talking with a um an actual nuclear a
small reactor company recently uh
modules and one of the points I'd made
with them was every area of energy
production but particularly in nuclear
tends to have these like internal firing
squads Tokyo firing squads of which
technology approaches the best and I
don't like to working on that same with
like rocketry who's the best and of
course because ours is the only one that
can only have one prototype that
actually gets paid for everyone
someone's horrible and it's like it's
never gonna work and I think that
happens an awful lot in nuclear power
and rocketry so so I don't take sides on
those if it's serious enough that it's
worth prototyping I'd love to see it get
prototyped
so we have a question from CR Smith
thank you for your super chat in the
book all tomorrows the aliens known as
the Q use Mel malvin
terribly bad bad intended genetic
engineering to punish humans that they
conquered is this possible oh yeah
there's also I mean if you've ever read
the book uh what about the book the
short story uh I have no mouth but I
must scream by Holden Ellison
um that that is an example of just how
horrifying In Like A Game of Thrones
ain't got nothing on this uh kind of way
of what you could do to people if you
have a lot of technology and you know uh
he was an inventive man but people come
with far worse things since then so if
you have you know access to high-end
genetic engineering uh or if you've got
high access to a really good VR mind
uploading you can make some horrible
situations would be in so it's it's very
important not to be on the losing end of
a war within it was very high tech if
they haven't got ethics yeah
so
netvi thank you for your Super Chat uh
he did not have a question but he sent a
donation and we have guests watching
from Norway Germany and Croatia today
that have dinged in to say hello thank
you for staying awake to watch our
program
67 fourths or 7 64th says thank you for
they have a donation as well and they
said hi I imagine a Dyson Sphere would
work like we used the power on an entire
star to run a Godlike AI five seconds
later it invents a revolutionary new
technology that renders an all Dyson
serious income obsolete
you know uh in one of Avengers I'm
actually gonna fit the title by now fire
upon the deep I believe but one of his
big um
one of his novice from the old 80s that
looked at this stuff um or 90s was the
idea that every time you had a
technological singularity had lasted for
about 10 minutes before it either it
disappeared and because it won't be all
that communicative that way because
they're thinking so fast upgrading so
fast you know this kind of exponential
rapid rush you never really got the
details of what happened so we didn't
know if they were committing suicide
inevitably blowing up or just like
transfusing themselves to another
dimension
um you know if you make a master brain
what's the first thing he does with it
when it gets turned on hard to say but
there's a pie probability of B I'm going
to re-engineer myself to be better
because this is this could be done much
better
I'd like to thank Maya skill for jumping
in the helping filter questions that's
helping a lot uh Joseph says do you
think that we will ever reach faster
than light travel or that all human
expansion will be limited by the speed
of light
um I don't expect us to ever get a way
to go faster than speed of light and a
couple of methods I know that kind of
like permit it maybe kind of soda
um those almost all ones where they
really wouldn't let you expand faster
than speed of light like Wormhole so you
don't really get to just pick the place
that's expanding out to you of your
choice and go there that way you drag it
out there the long way or it opens up
someplace and that's where you uh that's
where you go which high probability
isn't even in your original Universe
under those theories but I really don't
expect us to actually have the ability
to travel fashion light ever
Bass by the bay says what do you think
will be the next phase of human
evolution we've slowed our evolution by
drastically controlling our environment
is genetic engineering the only way to
evolve at this point
um you know the point gets raised that
since evolution is directly about the
stuff that's that's most
um challenging and what adapts to it
that you don't get it when you have a
very comfortable circumstances
um there are some issues with that right
from the get-go first humans devoted off
a lot of their brain resources and
energy is to dealing with other humans
that that is the biggest you know uh
environmental threat to us so yes we
could easily make some happy Paradise
right but when you have a species that
has its brain so fine-tuned that you can
tell from like 30 feet away if someone's
looking at your nose or looking right in
the eye right that's how good that is
that's because your brain has an awful
lot of resources devoted to that and
thus interaction with humans is your
environment it doesn't matter how Posh
your surveillance are other people are
your main Predators prey Etc so I don't
really see that one changing too much
unless you're in some kind of VR virtual
Paradise uh as to whether or not genetic
engineering play much more role than
Evolution I I would say absolutely going
forward but it's it's kind of depends on
how you're looking at it I would I would
discourage people who need to focus on
the idea of life and DNA or your DNA
pattern really being all that strongly
connected as as synonymous so don't
think of yourself as just your DNA those
gut microbes in your stomach those are
part of you right your dead skin cells
don't on anyone those are part of you
um that's kind of idea of what is
identity and that's in some ways what
you should be more focus on would be
evolving like you might have a hive mind
develop for instance that has nothing to
do with genetics just the people who
actually wore the nodes and platforms of
it and so how does that thinking evolve
will change with time and a lot of that
would presumably by design a lot will be
your trial by or so similar similar case
analogies I think would apply even
afterwards so are we going to ask how
comfortable environment it is it's been
not a major factor for some time anyway
Robert says
um
what would science fiction be for a car
to set kardashev type 3 civilization are
there boundaries to quote speculative
science fiction
um I mean I think you have specular
fiction pretty much for everyone in a
situation like that unless they just
didn't have fiction but science fiction
I think an awful lot of Science Fiction
that we see is a 20th century thing
because that's where we get the oh my
God the universe is just huge thing and
like how do we cope with that
um now that same time a lot of it really
was just oh hey let's have a you know
western frontier in space and we'll
place the revolvers with lasers
um
whatever the major things are with that
culture at that time would be what was
driving it but K3 civilization
especially one that does not have FTL is
not one that's going to have a unified
cultural design when it's fiction is
going to be and so when you get that
best seller that hits on one side of the
Galaxy and then gets those little
magellanic Cloud 2 000 light years away
200 000 years later they might or may
not consider a revolutionary book though
uh they may think it was very boring or
they may have had periods where that was
very popular so I don't really don't
expect a unified cultural artwork or
science fiction
Jackie Soto says why bother trying to
build a planet when you could build a
space
stead habitat instead
I mean I know why I would bother
as I said I don't know the really
wanting to build plants is really one of
those goals I I you know that would be
uh it's it's a lot of work to build a
planet we're going to ask whether or not
it's really Justified but yeah space
habitat's gonna be much easier I'm sure
we will build plans if we get the
technology for it anyway though
so uh from Fort gaming we often talk
about Cloud cities on Venus and then
terraforming Venus but what about
surface habitats on Venus is it feasible
to maintain a cool enough surface
habitat for raw material mining yes yeah
um it's it's Venus is hot but it's a
temperature that things like tungsten
for instance very easily can add oh
steel right you at certain temperatures
it gets much harder on materials in
general even ones that have a melting
point that's higher than that but you
can operate stuff down there you'd have
to you know in me case you'd have to use
very customized bits and pieces where
you find out there are components that
one ship you need to order that are not
designed to exist inside an oven because
they people just don't need to build
that
um and so you are going to have supply
chain or something like that too but
yeah it's doable you can also there's a
lot of ways to keep things cool down
there you could have habitats for humans
live on down there if the question is
how much do you want it you can cool
things down to lower the temperature the
Earth is obviously we do this in a lab
but you need a bigger radiating surface
and takes a fair amount of energy to
pump in there it's just a question of
how badly do you want it and how much
easier this technology let you do it but
you could have entire colonies down on
Venus as is now or you could do it in
the face like the you know with the bush
stuff coming over where you start using
a solo shade to cool it and you have
seeds of liquid carbon dioxide down
there so uh on that note I think we're
going over to our break we're on break
for a few minutes and it's a great time
to get a drink and a snack and get more
questions in for our moderators while we
are on break since folks often ask what
my favorite shows are or what my
opinions on them are if you're curious
my favorite film I saw in 2022 was Dune
part one and I'm very much looking
forward to that sequel this year and my
favorite new Sci-Fi TV show 2022 was
Star Wars Andor which was a surprising
relief from the last couple years of
rather mediocre adaptations including
the fantasy genre probably A Life Lesson
there it is very easy to want to see
your favorite books get turned into a TV
show or movie or to see some other
favorite film or TV show from years back
back get a sequel or a reboot it often
leaves a lot to be desired though
especially if they Tinker with the
cannon for no necessary adaptive reason
though sometimes they do turn out very
well too even the ones that did that
tinkering someone asked me recently if I
thought it was very important to be true
to a Worx cannon in adaptations and that
one goes with the other question I get a
lot from writers which is how realistic
their science needs to be in a novel or
show or game I tend to feel both
questions miss something and that's the
notion that you actually need to depart
from Canon or physical reality for a
good walk you can I do not think folks
should feel enslaved in their
storytelling we are making a good story
is the main point however I think it's
often permission for laziness which also
is not needed
Shakespeare has been getting performed
with and without adaptations for
centuries now anecdotally I'd say fairly
faithful adaptations are as well light
as the ones that try to do high concept
EG Romeo and Juliet but set during the
American Civil War or similar which is
still given in saying the same story but
changing up a lot of dialogue and plot
and if Shakespeare's Works can be done
with no changes when centuries old it
tends to imply modern Classics that were
written in living memory probably do not
absolutely require those changes grain
of salt though will just saying a
strictly Canon adaptation can be done
and be good not that an adaptation isn't
viable for instance forbidden planets is
generally knowledged as one of the great
sci-fi films of all time and was
arguably the first big budget sci-fi
film made back in 1956 and it is
generally considered a loose adaptation
of Shakespeare's The Tempest I love that
film and the Tempest is also one of my
favorite plays and they definitely have
major points of aggression and I suppose
you could make the argument that there's
almost an uncanny valley for adaptations
The Uncanny Valley is the phenomena we
noticed where folks find things which
are very close to human and appearance
to be outright repulsive and creepy or
uncanny whereas things a little closer
to human would pass and things further
away would be cute for resembling humans
or people but being far off mannequins
are a classic example I generally find
them revolting while some alien doll
with enormous eyes and blue or green
skin is merely cute as is Robbie the
robot from that film forbidden planets
even though he doesn't resemble a human
as much as a mannequin does which is the
point of The Uncanny Valley it's the
opposite of the Goldilocks zone a spot
in between two human and not human
enough I would make the case you get
that same effect with adaptations in
that one that is close enough especially
in the right ways is very good while
those quite far away can essentially say
they're inspired by or paying homage to
a work and it's probably a good parallel
in that we can often be surprised by
what flies and what doesn't in mimicking
but as an example While most of us
Tolkien fans like Peter Jackson's
lord-thing adaptation none of us applaud
glorfindel being missing or death or
being portrayed rather unkindly in the
films they were just very good in spite
of that on the flip side a lot of us
agreed with skipping Tom Bombadil and
there is an inertia of public opinion
coming decide what was and was not okay
that's probably not very fair in many
cases either as to Scientific realism
almost every major and beloved sci-fi
classic has some major break with
science over and above made up science
or technology for the setting for
instance Dunes water shortage is not
scientifically plausible for society
with the technology shown in the books
or any space-faring society with
scientifically realistic technology so I
can't claim you need to have your
science accurate or should aim for hard
realism of known modern science because
Dune is amazing and the plot there
really needs the water shortage however
I would argue that walks generally dig
good in spite of those breaks with
realism and science not because of them
I have heard very few works praise for
Science flubs and unrealistic portrayals
of people whereas I have heard many
criticized for that and on the flip side
many Works receive praise for their
realism and draw audiences in better for
that whereas many breaks suspension of
disbelief and lose the audience with
their lack of realism and speaking of
audiences thank you everyone for joining
us again for another live stream q a and
let's get back to more of that q a
foreign
there we go and we're back
uh Owen Keenan wanted to give a shout
out to all tomorrows he said that's what
got him interested in scientifically
minded sci-fi and as a result introduced
him to your channel oh awesome
and several comments regarding the break
you have a few Robert says it's kind of
spooky to think that all of this came
from rocks and sticks haha and another
one says that Romeo Juliet and with
Leonardo DiCaprio is the uncanny valley
of Shakespeare yep
I like DiCaprio as an actor I didn't
like it the sweet thing is I didn't like
him in Titanic I was supposed to put
movies but I loved it almost everything
you did since then so I think it was uh
Gangs of New York would have changed my
mind on that
all right so jumping back into the uh
questions that we have queued up here we
have a thought criminal have you heard
of Bin Tilly's vertiginous question and
if so what do you think of it in other
words why am I me and not someone else
oh okay right so and that is about it
that's that is why am I experiencing my
memories what what are the odds of me
experiencing it it's very for those who
are the anthropic principle that's kind
of the notion there is what about you
know why am I here to observe that I
exist under this situation exists I
cannot really comment on that much
beyond that because it does it is not
the same question as the anthropic
principle and I've never really exploded
too much depth mostly the fact that it's
so close but a little bit different
perspective I know one of the questions
is do you say yourself like uh yeah why
am I experiencing my stuff real time as
opposed to somebody else's experiences
because I could be experiencing um you
know Sarah's perspective but somebody
else's perspective recorded not real
time so the question is why am I expect
experiencing Isaac's existence for your
time but that's probably about as much
as I can really comment on that one
because it's a philosophy question and I
I know some of those but not that well
so could be an interesting thought
process oh yeah
um Bliss says how would expansion
scenarios with faster than light travel
communication but without the faster
than light travel itself play out
teleportation would be the big one if
you can move information you can move
people right and you also move
governments and you can move military
forces in some fashion too
um you you have to use different
Pathways at that point in time like
let's assume it takes too much data you
don't you may have instantaneous travel
but it's low bits like we see that and I
think the uh the battle Tech Universe
they have the hyperspace pulse
generators that are effectively
Telegraph machines you know you can send
a few kilobytes of information old
school modem speed and uh the result of
that is that's what you'd say between
two planets and that's kind of a maximum
because they're not very good at
building the technology as a result of
that you can send letters back of
watching Governors and they do a fast
night travel there it still takes weeks
but it's it's they can do it right so
basically you've got military ability to
go invade uh and you have to use very
elite equipment because all you really
care about is the hyperspace generator
they can send their courses uh and you
have a very small amount of we can send
messages
um if you have a relatively no bandwidth
you're leading you're controlling
through
um essentially I would say you got your
good Vice oil Ambassador but you're
controlling through information you are
the new service you are the uh
um and we're not saying any course of
others you know what's the unity of
standard you're controlling things by we
are the weights and measures we are the
source of the new movies that come out
of Hollywood or a holly planet or
whatever it is Planet Hollywood the real
Planet Hollywood in the future as well
you know those are the things that you
use for maintaining cultural adhesion or
whatever else keeps your Empire going
together
So speaking of weights and measures we
had a question about whether or not you
think the United States will move to a
metric system and I was going to comment
at my flight lesson yesterday I learned
that we actually have to learn both
metric and standard because
apparently placed in between too like
when we had an artillery and it's used a
lot by infantry too it's it's very easy
to tell how far somebody away is by the
annual difference when you're using the
middle scale which is basically you know
thousands of degrees as opposed to the
more classic 360.
um I don't know the United States is
ever going to go 100 metric like some
other places did I do know a lot of
places that say they've gone metric
we'll still use boards like feet and
Miles uh the other thing is I'm not a
fan of a unitary like single unit thing
I try to do most of the channel stuff
and things of like uh yeah slightly less
than half the audience is American and
so I I do tend to still put miles and
things like that in there but other
things where it doesn't really fit well
to use metric anyway
um I don't want to say that you have to
go like I was a 10 to 16th meters per
light you
um you could talk to people in terms of
a like I said we have Peta meter uh you
know how many pedometers is it to Alpha
Centauri how many septimeters
um but why not just say light yellows
that makes more sense it's like I don't
like the insistence of a lot of
astronomers are still listening things
off in power sex there's no reason to do
that but that's what they're measuring
in because that's that tiny little unit
of angle that tells us what the distance
is don't give people pulse X give them
to them in light years so on the one
hand you get too many units so units are
not really useful between fields or
people on the hand you really don't want
to force that to just one uh that
doesn't necessarily mean you have a
meter and a foot but those are very
close relative Concepts that you really
need that you don't really need to have
an inch when you have like a Deca foot
for instance
um but you don't want to necessarily
have the same unit of you know
kilometers and I've never heard anyone
say mega beater right a thousand
kilometers a mega meter nobody use that
tool there's a lot of ones like that so
in the science is we talk about things
normally electron volts because we're
measuring them in their voltage right we
don't use the mass of the actual energy
at that point so you don't want to get
too fixed down just having one unit of
measurement I have often thought about
doing an episode why the metric system
sucks
did you do that before or after I have
to learn it for the flight lessons the
one I've actually got this is the thing
is people say well I like about metric
system this or that and the metrics are
great system I use tons of stuff but
um they say well you know I like you
know do this or this about the message
so that's a metric that's decimal that's
base 10. that's the part you like about
that and you're around to like that too
so well we count we count in tens ten
bingos that's not in Conway County we
also used to count one two three four
five six on Knuckles the X12 Knuckles
right that makes it much easier to
account uh that way so we use a lot of
Base 12 base 5 and 12. this is a base 60
here I can do 60 Minutes on this hand
because I got five fingers right so I
got this hand and this
all right so
and so we have like minutes set out was
spoken in the 60s that's a natural
system too base 12 is very handy because
I can divide it by six I can divide it
by two I can divide it by three or four
and those are much more intuitive to a
lot of people I thought a quarter things
like that but there is no fundamentally
better system it's just having a lot of
overlap
um and we have really standardized on a
lot like when I was a kid we're still
not uncommon to have all sorts of
different you know troy ounces versus
having a poor analysis or other things
like that there was a gun away
um I don't know that you have to have
one unified system measurement and I
certainly don't think you'd have only
one unit but so you could have one so
for much different scales it makes more
sense to explain something at the atomic
scale in terms of atomic radii rather
than
about God why can't everyone's
underneath the femto meet us you know so
um but you know I think that that's
that's the Assumption there that we
never convert to matching the United
States maybe but we don't use metric and
science either we use s i which is based
mostly Alpha metric but it has a bunch
of other units too so maybe one day and
it wouldn't necessarily be a bad thing
but don't get too locked in your head
that one single unit is any better than
having one single language there's a lot
of Concepts that are much better
understood by being a bilingual and so
there's no real rush to you know
suddenly get rid of all the language for
one standardized I can't even what was
called uh back in the day but it was a
kind of a Spanish equivalent again it
was called though there were a few
people William's gonna put in the
comments I'll show us the window I think
it start with the EU and I but you know
the idea that you have to have that much
standardization is not necessarily a
bonus I have an interesting question
here from uh gravityani I always
wondered about this due to Mars lower
atmosphere density wouldn't it be easier
for astronauts to keep warm with only a
thin space suit
um that's actually a good point right we
uh let me add that one Kevin let's a
little note code over here says common
misconceptions about space traveler one
hygiene two cold or how big of a
spacesuit that they need yeah so we put
these big gold shields on visors so you
can see through them and they're very
protect against radiation space is not
cold it is not dark uh and our biggest
issue with astronauts is not them
freezing to death it's them overheating
there's no place for your heat to go uh
it can slowly radiate away from you but
for the most part you're stuck with a
lot of heat especially you're insulated
so you can freeze death in space it's
true you know they're all cool places
too but
um the idea there is let's do a
temperature and more to do with uh heat
which is not the same thing right one
cup of hot water contains more heat in
it even though it's at room temperature
then an entire oven at 400 degrees you
know it's it's the difference of
quantity versus
uh amplitude
um
as to Mars would you freeze or overheat
there it would depend off a lot of how
your suit was built like you can lose
heat right through your feet into the
ground very quickly and you can radiate
heat away too uh it is cold there and so
it depends a lot of factors that we
really are going to have to very
dependent on the suit that you're
actually wearing what that design looks
like too
uh cushion carello thank you for your
super chat again and he said what is
your thoughts on the most recently
proposed pellet beam propulsion and how
would you improve it
um you can't go back to that Mars one we
overheating
yes let's get this next question
um so you overheating space that's
actually wearing a spacesuit that's
really heavy and thick to keep your air
and the ones on Mars don't have to be
quite as heavy and thick potentially
especially the higher attacks you get
colder quicker you know less insulated
as the pellets
um I like pellet-based ideas for like a
line drives because they let you have
more of a smooth rocket you know fuel
effect that could potentially allow a
torch drive we talk about all those
upcoming Advanced space continuum drives
episode or Advanced spaceship Drive
compendium episode due out in the end of
April which I have to record soon I
haven't actually recorded any episodes
in like a month now so I've written time
did you say why no because we're walking
well
um I started my speech therapy back up I
think I mentioned this you know like the
Dark Forest episode and the first thing
they told me of the new speech stamp is
is you have a tongue tie I'm not going
to show that on screen very hard to
anyway
um but uh it's like you need to do these
mouth exercises before we can actually
form the surgery or if you even need it
right to stretch your mouth out and
that's supposed to instantly eliminate
the problem it's like okay well I've got
like three months advance of episodes
recorded and the thing is supposed to
take two or three months why don't I
just go ahead and leave that curve a bit
so I haven't actually recorded an
episode since I started up but I think
I'm gonna have to anyway because I we've
got that I get really far ahead on the
episodes but then I'm running out of
things to do with that channel otherwise
so I'm gonna have to stop recording
episodes again soon moving up to iTune
now
um what was the question
yeah pellet fusion
um
actually trying to get the can I
actually set up a system that I can
self-power off this what's the energy
Gathering system for doing it behind the
ship but all we're trying to do is blow
the thing up do you essentially have a
double system where there's a reactor
that powers the lasers that's nuclear
and those just blow the pellets up
behind the ship or you're actually
grabbing that uh explosion to power the
ship too I think that's kind of the
trickier part on that and it's probably
going to turn out that it's easier to do
one separate from the other so what
we'll see
give me of one that actually works first
so would technology ever exist that
would need components that had to be
perfect at the molecular molecular level
such as we machine to the thousandths
now yeah
um we have some Machinery that is it has
to be accurate down to I know molecule
is kind of an unclearish term because
your molecule is like 100 000 atoms big
and those aren't even particularly big
in some cases uh beagle proteins but we
are already down at the stage with
semiconductors that they basically have
to be accurate within a couple atoms
um those aren't the ones I think that
we're really producing for commercial
use right now but that's the high-end
lab stuff that's coming out a quantum
computer has to be that degree of
accuracy uh so that that's definitely
gonna be on those things on the table
same for nanotech you can you can only
build as strong as will last to do the
job it's doing you know so you're
something might only be an atom wide
it's not getting a lot of work done
before it breaks uh and um you can only
build it as small as you can actually
machine it accurately so we have to here
to get there to do some of the cooler
Technologies we'd like to do but not
really for nanotech and we know we can
be at least as accurate as biological
life is so probably probably an order of
magnitude better
so James shepegrell says can you use
electromagnetic braking and
superconductors to lower materials to a
planet but dissipate the heat into space
or use the energy like your active
Support app so like as an alternative to
air braking the cool thing about eel
baking is it lets you you know shunt a
lot of energy off of something as it
comes into orbit so it can land on the
ground because moving kilometers per
second as it hits the atmosphere
um
but an alternative way of doing that if
you want to harvest that energy instead
of just turning a bunch of heat which is
very important if you have a plant
that's got thousands of giant spaceships
landing out every day in which case you
really don't want to use superhero
Atmosphere by making tons worth of cargo
coming in every day
um you just get hit by an asteroid every
day in terms of thermal expansion not a
good plan
but uh you can still grab that by what
you do there is you build a big long
tube either you do your orbital ring and
tether down from that and poke it in
space or you build yourself a big lawn
tube or ramp that things fly down and
just like a mass driver adds The energy
they suck it out the difficulty though
is that it's so much easier to shoot
something out of a cannon than it is to
catch something that's been shot out of
a cannon yeah so you you're trying to go
naturally very long and narrow and I can
put something in one end of my pen for
instance and fight out the back you know
like a blow gun on the other hand trying
to actually line this up so that bullet
hits it divide the angle so it doesn't
hit the side as it's going down at
kilometers per second and blows to bits
it's a much taller but doable so and
then you can get most of your energy
back
Delta Infinium asks if power incentive
to succeed if power beaming turned out
to be infeasible how would this affect
our future in space
um
if power beaming was in I mean it
depends so much on on what particular
way it turned out to be in feasible it
was just turned out we couldn't do it at
all for any reason that'd be a pretty
big deal whereas which just turns out we
can't focus the beam you know 100 Au
that's different right if it turns out
the mass when we could focus Beam on the
back of like a light sail ship was a few
Au that means that you almost have to
build gigantic relays along the way
between two systems and that very much
turns into a colonization via you know
pioneering versus railroading when I
want to send a colony ship to Alpha
Centauri I don't send a railroad there I
send some guys in like a wagon with uh
you know a couple of rifles right old
Pioneer School style but if I can
actually build the railroad real time
out there that's what I do
and if it's but if you had to do a
billion relay stations along the way to
do that because you can't focus very
long that changes the dynamic a lot and
so
if you can't do power beaming very well
it has some very negative effects in
terms of what can you do
there are so many things that would be
very much improved by doing that but
keep in mind that almost all of our
space concepts are all designed around
the idea that power beaming isn't in
play so it's a lot of the ideas we talk
about on the shows take advantage of
that working they still have a lot of
other ideas as far back so if you don't
if you got a fusion reactor you don't
necessarily need power baby if you don't
have either your options are really
limited for what you can do for space
travel
Mr gaster says what would be some other
uses for anti-gravity considering that
warp is a classic faster than light
system that relies on it
um other use of anti-gravity
I mean the big one is I can go ahead and
lift things up very easily and that
means now I have a building that's a
hundred miles tall and it doesn't work
really equal that much of an
infrastructure and the question is just
take active support to keep that energy
going like you know when the power and
life support fails on board the
Enterprise they all start freezing to
death and suffocating in like one minute
I don't know why they have enough air on
board the last months right before they
even get carbon dioxide issues and heat
would take days but we you know see the
temperature drop uh ship that big but
the gravity is still on they have
gravity plating what exactly why is the
gravity still I need to be floating
around of course the answer is it's
really hard to do that special effect so
you know they
but it'd be a fun one to have seen more
often does your artificial gravity you
have on board ships or your anti-gravity
go off if the power gets turned off in
which case you probably don't want to
use it a lot of um buildings unless you
got very good uninterrupted power
supplies and you're having us to do a
lot of tricks though and one of those
would be you could build a plant that's
much bigger than one that would be able
to naturally form you could go ahead and
build like
gigantic Mega stars that are still only
burned as fast as our sun did but
nonetheless had a fuel supply that could
last it couldn't tell you kneels a lot
of options come to play when you're not
restrained by the normal gravitational
age things can orbit at different speeds
because you have their actual
gravitational mass that kind of thing
foreign
episode clock Tech anti-gravity
thank you for your Super Chat would it
be possible to create a super
relativistic ion drive particularly to
slow down a beam powered spacecraft
headed to a new system is there an upper
limit to its air speed
um yeah
um well okay
if you can build a particle collider
that can move things at ultravativistic
speeds then you can turn that into an
engine
um doing that practically is a little
bit trickier than it is but you know it
doesn't necessarily have to be a linear
accelerator either it could be a big
circular accelerator and just fired out
when it got the end like um like
um
oh my God what's that called
um you're spinning around in launch
slingshot yeah like an actual old sling
not not the kind of spin around the guy
but uh you can build an engine that was
working on that pencil as a particle
accelerator
I was just thinking about it it's just
gonna be such a look
I want to be on your team for charades
but I'm really good entree so me and
Christina do yes I know so yeah I want
to be on her team for charades she's
always good we haven't done that in a
while we usually play Katan we do board
game nights on socials I couldn't quite
figure out what that round and round was
that you were doing
Polo so could you could you strap a
particle accelerator on the back of a
ship power and use that as your uh Azure
engine yes the answer is yes and um
that's definitely an option if you got
the power source for it
um as what your maximum speed is with
beam Powers you gotta keep mine at some
point in time you begin running into the
other beam that you've now created which
is your ultra relativistic speed toward
Cosmic microwave background radiation
um that stuff is very weak uh and
diffuse but the faster you're going the
more blue shift it is and eventually you
reach a point where it's basically
someone's got a flashlight turn on your
old ship
um and then later on and become a
massive radiation Source too if you use
if you're at the point where you'll get
your the events you know is up above
1000 you're now plowing forward and only
one seconds passing for you for every
thousand the normal Universe outside of
that but you also already need a cosmic
microwave background variation of the
ambient radiation that's all up to the
point of being like UV radiation take a
little bit further and now you're
getting hit by x-rays a little further
on you're running into a gigantic gamma
flashlight those are your kind of
limitations on that you can't ignore the
outside Universe
um even into the galactic space suguru
2000 said thank you for your Super Chat
does time dilation cause a red blue
shift of light for example would the
Stars be viewed from a planet
experiencing accelerated or slowed down
passage of time appear to be a different
color oh yeah if you're hauling
family friendly show if you are hauling
if you're moving really fast towards all
pale blue dots you're going to see the
consonants slowly shift from green to
blue and the oceans Turn to You Know
Violet and if you speed up more they'll
turn to ultraviolet and again it can
speed up even more they turn the next
phrase same
um light actually does blue shift as it
comes down or gravity well from the sun
it's very minimal because this has to do
with like the speed of light compared to
the Escape flossiest Planet very very
big difference that's a factor of uh
30 000-ish roughly thirty thousand ish a
grain of salt on that number because of
Snapchat math so you're not getting that
much of a shift there but uh down like a
black hole you know neutron star oh yeah
those blue shift and so does light
coming off them so without the red
shifts we have about a minute left and I
have three questions I'm gonna try to
wrap up with here Clash says 200 years
from now where would most humans offer
earth live Mars asteroids the keeper
belt or somewhere else
um probably not the Kuiper belt it's
it's in which you fall out there to be
useful I'd say probably in orbit of
Earth and if not an orbit of Earth or
the moon because we're excluding that
the asteroid belt and Morningstar Banff
says how do you feel that we seem to be
technologically slow in their opinion to
go and colonize space more or less not
going to space and starting mining
Asteroids for resources
um
I would say that my usual answer on that
is that the you know the country I live
in dates to 1776 but the colonization of
it by those various influences that was
centuries earlier that that began
um it takes time for things like that to
rev up Antarctica or siberial play site
that only just starting to see real
colonization uh these days it's slow
moving you know the first person to walk
on the South Pole was over a century ago
the first permanent base in Antarctica
took a long time after that and only in
the last couple decades would you really
say mcmoto and a few of those places
could really qualify as like a human
settlement although technically they are
not because it's against the tree for
them to be but you know technically in
reality they're basically all and I
think the same applies for something
like them it just takes time it's slow
and irritating but it's true so the last
question today is going to be from Phil
and he wants to know if you can think of
some less known potential applications
for negative energy uh I mean the big
one is always about how we can make a
wormhole or warp drive
um less well yeah less well-known ones I
mean I don't know if those will be all
that well known uh it's how it's so
close
um
you should be able to use a generate
vacuum energy the thing is uh when you
hear it's almost like zero point of
vacuum energy the idea there's a working
off of is the idea that at the quantum
level there's always a certain density
of particles popping into existence that
causes a vacuum they're not going to be
quite a vacuum and you should be able to
use that kind of negative threshold to
actually generate an outward Force 2
which would very similar to that lets
you generate a lot of power so uh Power
or let's try to pronounce those R's
better so that would be one more example
of that other ones time travel
um that always opens the doorway to that
um
surviving to go hide inside a black
holes Event Horizon that'd be other one
it represents a potentially good
cloaking technology you go hide under an
event horizon and then pop out to
survive a little bit like the Andromeda
although that was an involuntary stay in
the show called Andromeda uh starving
Hercules Kevin Sorbo it's a very good
show from the early 2000s you know
otherwise a relatively bad year off and
not too much good Sci-Fi coming out uh
not a not one of my favorites but still
pretty decent watch if you're looking
for viewing recommendations for the rest
of today though I'd still recommend
seeing Star Wars and or what you hadn't
so on that wonderful note we're gonna go
ahead and wave away goodbye and
