good afternoon everyone and welcome to
the sfia monthly livestream q a
we'll get started in just a moment but
go ahead and start getting your
questions in the chat window so our
moderators can start relaying those to
me as soon as we start please try to
keep the questions concise and watch
your spelling and try to be polite to
others in the chat
we usually go for about an hour so you
probably want to grab a drink and a
snack though we'll take a break about
halfway through too with all that said
welcome and let's get started
good afternoon everybody and welcome to
our monthly livestream q a here at
science and futurism with isaac arthur
and i am the aforementioned host isaac
arthur and today we are joined by my
beloved co-host my wife sarah fowler
arthur hi sarah how are you doing today
good thank you husband
we uh we had just gotten back from a
trip that pays me after the last episode
had premiered went to michigan and we uh
very long drive uh because it was the
far side of michigan and back and we
just got in what at three o'clock last
night three in the morning so i hope
everyone forgive me if i'm a little bit
sleepier than i'd like to be today it's
it's definitely a cloudy sleepy day so
seven hour drive
so as usual we'll be taking your
questions from the chat and uh say he'll
be reading them off to me uh and again
as always uh all moderators will take
those and post them over to her to read
uh aim for legible and compact so we can
get through those and of course uh keep
them civilized and stay away from
needlessly controversial topics of the
current modern day so that's
although we're going to make an
exception and kick off with a long one
that you actually received via email
since the last uh chat so this one is
from merv johnson and he says hi isaac i
have a question that might be a little
hard to fit into a super chat
you mentioned before the idea of docking
a space ship like an rv to the outside
of a rotating spin halves drum so the
crew could just walk up into the
basement of a house or mansion this is a
really cool idea that i love and might
borrow in sci-fi writing but you also
suggest wrapping any rotating habitat in
a non-rotating sleeve to protect it and
serve as a second layer of security
against leaks so how can a ship dock to
the outside of a drum if it has a
non-rotating protective sleeve
so that's a bit of a trick on this one
as we're thinking of in this case of a
rotating drum like this is having
you know probably a number of hexag
hexagonal squares or squares around the
outside that are all module that you
basically poured a ship into it and then
race up through the ground as like your
house mansion
um that you could take and move away
much as you can also potentially move
these habitats from one conglomeration
to another and that's kind of a critical
one we always say with these habitats
don't picture them really as actually
free floating in space with windows
exposed sunlight um that's possible but
it's good for visualization but more
likely it's a drum in case inside
something else and we usually say
another thin drum right around it for
simple conceptual purposes but there's
no real necessity for it to be another
thin drum it might be a great big old
sphere
or a great big bucky ball as we talk
about with the like the buckyball
habitats
which look like a soccer ball you know
those little pentagons and hex guns that
they have on the outside
um you know those those uh faces those
exterior lines between them that might
be your rotating habitat and then you've
got the shooting outside so if it was
kind of a bucky ball or you know carbon
60 allotrope look to it
and uh those are the individual lines
connecting them uh so you could actually
just bring a ship into something like
that and then pour it in the trick of
course is that you you are bringing a
ship on to try to connect something
that's moving which it might be very
fast indeed uh a lot of this is gonna be
moving at mach 1 ohio type speeds uh so
you might do that by having like a winch
tether that was on the outside that uh
kind of dragged the thing around it up
to speed as it went and kind of then
linked it in but it'd be a little bit
tricky i think the idea though is is
there are ways you could solve that some
might be a little bit easier than others
but i think that you'd end up having
that as a big priority for people to do
because the ability to move the whole
habitat from one conglomeration of
habitats to another and the ability to
move your individual house from one
habitat to another really does change
the kind of the layout of people's i say
kind of personal freedom inside the
community you know they don't like the
way things are being run they can go to
another one whereas it lets others
experiment with ideas that don't
necessarily have to fit with what you
know the the overwhelming majority of
most folks would want unless you have
that more that very specialized niche
application which
i think as long as that's voluntary it's
kind of where we tend to
want to aim for society in most cases is
is communities that are very specialized
to the needs and wants of their people
which are going to vary a lot especially
if they can move so
i think that's one of those problems
they've been looking very hard to solve
so uh merv also had a ps that said great
job on the mega structures compendium
thank you
that was our first one uh that we'd done
with a co-narrator buying a couple of
times we had somebody like john michael
gautier or some of us we're
collaborating with to some voiceovers in
the episode
um and even that we don't do that often
um i think we i'll probably do that
again for another long episode at some
point
i'm guessing we either do one like
spaceship propulsion again you have to
revisit that with a big long list or
redo the fermi paradox compendium we do
a fully paradox solutions to kind of
update that to all the ones we have thus
far and put a little bit more of a
category structure if of course i need
my wife to agree to do another narration
so
it takes a lot of practice to repeat to
do those
yes
um so so maybe we should follow up here
with this other question first which is
from crossover maniac thank you for your
super chat crossover and he says when
will you do a show on a magnetic drag
sale for slowing down an interstellar
spacecraft without propellant letting a
spacecraft burn most of its fuel to
accelerate towards its destination
um
i was not saying well we could probably
put that right into the schedule list
and it actually is kind of tempting to
do because we should look at
yeah but i might be easier to do an
episode on decelerating spaceships or
something like that that would be a
that would be a pretty good one to look
at is either mag sales um you know or
other ways to slow ships down because
that's that's the main interest there
there's nothing you do with laser beams
you can't do with like electronically
charged particles just hard to keep them
in a coherent line for long distance a
lot of ways they work a lot better um
but uh they help a lot for selling ships
down
and it is it's not something that we
skip on on the show because we don't
think it's a good idea it's really more
one of those ones where
a lot like we almost never have any
graphics we're showing laser propulsion
we have none for that either either and
it's uh or maybe like one or two and a
lot of these ideas work a lot better if
you can put them up on the screen for
people to see them
uh magnetic series for accelerating
though you know as a concept it's simple
enough you are using charged particles
to slow down just like you would drag a
veil and it's a great approach if it can
work but a lot of times depends on the
local density of the medium and that
that varies by a factor of a million or
more depending on where you're at in the
galaxy so
it's a good approach though i think
maybe maybe the celery spaceship should
be an episode we do
all right uh michael ness wants to know
how could a brain interface
a brain computer interface simulate
let's try that again how could
a brain computer interface
stimulate many organic neurons at once
in order for you to be able to see and
hear virtual things does that make sense
uh yeah how could a
brain metabolic proxy but yeah let me
drag it up okay how could a brain mental
neural interface uh stimulate all your
neurons give you like perception you got
a little net of electronics in your head
that's trying to give you augmented
reality let's say as or voice reality
either either one um and it's trying to
show you things and we were actually
talking about that the other day about
that be you know if you're very
sensitive to blue light one answer is
try to tape over all the little light
sources in the bedroom uh to get rid of
them um
random conversation this is a couple oh
and uh
you know another way is just to make it
so you can shut down your blue neurons
or turn the sensitivity down by just
kind of like thinking it right now that
you mentioned it i noticed that this
little camera that's staring at me has a
blue light right between my eyes yeah
once you notice it's it's definitely
right there
quite annoying
mine doesn't the esl camera just stares
at me the big thing says canon and it
kind of points my face over
uh for those of you who haven't done
much in the way of live streaming or
cameras over the years there are like a
million weird little things that that
distract you doing these and one of
those any sort of glare or dot on it so
are you actually wrapping tape around
the webcam right now go ahead
so the idea being that these are
electrically stimulated uh so a little
tiny electric current you just have to
know which ones to simulate and the lead
doesn't have to be big and a big thing
to remember is that your neurons are
very tiny so you just have a hundred
billion in your head they're still way
bigger than a few atom thick uh string
of like platinum you know we we can make
very tiny chords we've always been able
to do that you know we've got we've been
doing that for actually centuries maybe
things are smaller than neuron like
um but or width i should say but we can
make very tiny wires that sink in and
touch an individual neuron if we want we
probably don't have to it's kind of that
demonstrate um if i'm trying to
stimulate your your specific optic
nerves that might require especially
when i do a high
high definition pattern that might
require touching individual uh nerve
lines no neurons chords and things like
that um they're on chords
i can't remember what those are called
right now so ignore no i'm standing
uh i'll tell you something like a mental
keyboard you know
that can be an entire reach of your
brain that just stimulates you just kind
of learn to cast your thoughts that way
in the same way you learn to cast your
finger towards the a button or the b
button on your keyboard it wouldn't even
be that tricky we've already gotten you
know chimpanzees do it so it's probably
easier for humans to with the ability to
consciously know what they're about and
then you just have a way of doing that
and say with uh like a lot of those
whatever you're doing for interaction
you want to be something you wouldn't
ever do accidentally which is why you're
not really trying to
find a bit of you that would mentally
stimulate your hand to move like this
uh for something that was controlling
something on screen you know that might
be more intuitive but it's not what we
want we don't want you to actually do
that at nighttime while we're not
thinking about it you want something
that's deliberate like i'm never going
to accidentally reboot my computer by
accidentally hitting control delete
so we want to make sure anything we're
doing as a control system for those
is never going to be accidental you know
it's a
3000 remote button keyboard that you
learn how to use you're not going to
accidentally hit anything on it i hope
that answered that question
yeah and that blue light is still
staring at me i was trying to wrap a
kleenex around it but i couldn't get it
to
i'm stay
with his teapot but i don't know i've
thought about putting my finger over it
[Laughter]
so the next question is from benjamin
hogan hi isaac laser sale propulsion is
something you focus on for interstellar
highways but wouldn't ramjet ships that
essentially ride a trail of
pre-positioned fuel pellets eliminate
attenuation attenuation um yes
uh i mean we do talk about the ability
to send light beams out from from our
sun all the way up to these locations as
either a single beam or through relays
passion but
really when i'm talking about laser
sails when i mostly tend to envision is
that you've got stations along the way
relay stations along the way that are
sending out beams that they create from
local power production from fusion or
black hole generator or something like
that that works best or you could do a
fish even too but
but it's the idea that you could still
do other things um
and you often with the laser signals you
can interchangeably put that in there
with like matter stream or or pellets
like but
those fusion fuel pellets that it's
getting for instance uh that works too
if you have fusion but if you have
fusion why not run a big fusion reactor
and skip the entire issue of sending
that pellet ahead of them uh because
that pellet needs moving at speed too
right if you're trying to to send a beam
out that that pellet needs to overrun
the ship which means you need to
magnetically launch it out we'll be
moving at such a speed that it's not
taking kinetic energy away from the ship
when it runs it over to eat it and it
doesn't blow a checking into the hole in
the ship when they collide at thousands
of kilometers a second small detail yeah
but you you really don't have an issue
with so much with either a laser beam or
particle beams but the problem is that a
particle beam attenuates way faster if
it's charged particles because positives
and positives aren't going to like each
other i'm going to go away positive and
negative are going to attract and
combine into something neutral and so
you really can't keep a tight beam of
charged particles it works well though
if you can get to walk butts you know so
that the the context we usually talk
about laser beams though is i do tend to
use that as a catch-all just for
being shoved down by something you can
place that like a tractor b if you want
to it's the idea that you're not
following the rocket equation there
i think this one is a little bit similar
to one of the questions we already
answered but just in case there's
anything you wanted to add
void asks would electric or magnetic
sails be good for decelerating a
relativistic ship without needing any
infrastructure in the system ahead of
time popular topic
so
um maybe we should be doing that episode
yes and no um i i will say
it is always going to be better to have
that infrastructure in place
and i we would say normally that well
being able to celebrate with those
charged particles and already in the
system because it's full of ionized
particles right uh is a really good way
to do that and that's true right and you
want to take advantage of that but the
other one we discussed on that would be
like if you're doing laser sails you
launch something slightly ahead of your
vanguard fleet so your ship is going it
pops forward something looks like a big
packed sail and the process it slows low
that sail runs for it expands and slows
as it approaches that star from solar
pressure right it's being pushed back in
so it slows down and it takes all that
light and turns into the beam and hits
something behind it in this case
possibly another sail being lost for
that ship that's doing this as phase two
going to be slower or possibly ship
itself you just do a string of those
until the ships are slowed down and
basically that ends in a stalaise or
around the star before you arrive
that you've built and just as of my
means as you know a day ahead of you as
well um and uh you know those are
options that are available too but it's
it doesn't always have to be one or the
other
one caveat is is it's often really hard
to hybrid engines on things where it's
doing two or three of something else
because you have all that extra hardware
devoted doing x y or z
um you know i would be nice to have a a
call that ran on electric propane um you
know gasoline ethanol all those combined
but you ended up with a car that had
half the mileage of a current one from
you know doing that as a war so that
could be issue with spaceships too that
you couldn't really hybrid and you had
to go with which one's best however i
tend to suspect that that would not be
the case that you would actually be
using an entire ecosystem of different
options for slowing down these and it's
because they depend on which system
you're in any given fleet might have a
you know different alignment and plan so
modern solutions says hi isaac the disc
world by terry pratchett
two things are inevitable death and
taxes
life extensions challenge the former but
how about the taxes
i would say even even with life
extension you know it's not it's not
really immortality when we say
immortality it's not an infinite period
of time so death is still inevitable
it's just you know maybe it's a thousand
years or a million years or a billion
years or maybe it's even in 10th 100
years and last black hole was run out of
iron stars that number still nothing
compared to infinity so it's not actual
immortality but
uh as to taxes
that one does come up in like a
post-scarcity context is is um
if you have an infinite amount of money
or if you got the the star trek 3d
replicators that can produce anything
um
your public 3d printers do you still
need something like taxes and i think
that's that's the idea that a
post-scarcity environment when we talk
about the show we always say there's
always going to be some things that are
scarce you know because there's there's
human needs that's why we switch it was
easy something like maslow's iraqi of
knees where it's what do people want
basic survival needs are at the bottom
of the low and then you get up to more
complex things like friendship and love
and romantic relations etc and you don't
really have an ability to remove
scarcity of all those kind of elements
they can only be one number one champion
unless you have a scarcity of truth
because everyone's been
deceived via like their own personal
brainwashing machines i think either the
best of everything
uh you know those are options there a
lot of things to be done in a virtual
award environment that would otherwise
be impossible too but you end up with
this kind of concept where you say it's
not that there's an absence of scarcity
it's that most things are so easily
obtained that are important to people
that they are not a source of major
anxiety which is i think what most of us
care about anybody it's not that we mind
looking for what we need to get or
putting effort into the things we want
it's that we we don't like to see people
get horribly stressed or depressed about
whether or not they're going to be able
to get these things at all
um
in that kind of context
all those systems almost always are
going to imply some kind of taxation
system
even if it isn't called that you know
it's kind of say well we don't have
money in all in our star trek
civilization we just have something
that's pretty much identical to it in
every possible way but we don't call it
that i think you probably have the same
kind of thing with something like taxes
where if you got rid of it officially
you still have yes we all voluntarily
but not so voluntarily contribute to
this effort whatever it is so
i think that that probably is never more
much like death and so i think that
practice is absolutely right to say
those two are inevitable
a quick shout out to syndry for helping
me to
cue up the questions we've got quite a
few coming in here thank you everybody
for putting your questions in the chat
and sandri thank you for
viewing them for us so the next one here
is from tooman isaac how could we
retrieve probes that we sent on a flyby
mission through a system
i probably should add that to we have a
lot of folks and and syndry or alex is
is absolutely one of the hardest walking
on the show we have a lot of folks who
put a lot of time in the show that you
never see on screen and and and please
if you ever encounter any of them you
know say thanks if you enjoy the show or
not depending how you feel about it but
if you don't enjoy this no that's
terrible if you don't enjoy the show
if you don't enjoy the show find another
one to watch and be happy
no no
keep watching if you don't enjoy the
show keep watching until you enjoy it
again there we go there we go
what was the question again twoman's
question is isaac how could we retrieve
probes that we send on a flyby mission
through a system
you know um
maybe in the same way we should retrieve
people who don't enjoy the show we'll
just send them on a flyby mission so
they can see more shows and then they
can come back and watch the just scan
through them real quick and wait for the
next one i guess it's kind of like the
fly by missions life is kind of like the
show is that we have a 30 minute show
once a week and a flyby mission is one
of those things where it spends almost
all of its time in and out through
boring space and then gets like up like
a 30 minute window to look at a planet
oh that's when it's green higher speeds
and again we can tell we were just done
doing a lot of traveling ourselves
definitely a sleepy day
i ask you like well do you think the
voyager probe is ever going to get to
another ward or do you think it would
ever be found by aliens years ago seven
thousand years next star system uh do
you think you know that they're
everyone's gonna say no i know what's
gonna end up happening to the voyager
probe it's gonna end up at the
smithsonian or you know the armstrong
museum on the moon or something like
that at some point in time we'll go find
that thing and bring it home to the
place where it most belongs which is a
you know an aerospace museum um it's not
like it's gonna get any more work done
in the meantime it's it's it's amazing
how much we got now that already but you
know it's not gonna last 70 000 years
flying through space
um
but uh
you know
would you ever bother to pick up your
flyby and
i think in some cases you would and he
said well if we do a flyby probe of this
star system
you know
10 000 years later maybe that is a huge
industrialized planet that you know
that is a whole stellar empire of its
own that in that solar system it's got a
huge amount of resources that dwarf
indian modern nation has
does it go find that you know stellar
probe that that flew by originally you
know that that you know 20-ton little
probe that flew by and document the
planet and that they named all their
features after and the answer of course
is well probably yeah they probably put
some effort into finding that thing
right and it's presumably built to last
for centuries to be able to shout out in
the first place so there's a chance of
finding that
although it could end up like the uh the
true cross for the crusades is my art
history set teacher let's say on that
one as they i hope so many shows the
true cross on the crusade you could
build one that was like 40 feet tall and
think it's a tree
um you might have an awful lot of fake
probes brought back to those pcms or
bits and pieces this is the the the the
what we had what was the nicholas pro or
the wii pro that had gone to um
you know solar probes episode last week
uh that had gone to that planet left
and uh you know they come back and they
they've got so many little shards and
pieces of it at the museum on left that
you could build a museum out a little
bit
um so it'd be kind of hard to do
authenticity in all those cases but i
think there'll be an effort to go get a
lot of those probes
so we've got a lot of questions coming
in about probes but i'm going to skip
over some of them at the moment and you
can come back to them in the chat later
milano wants to know how would
transportation work on a birch planet
for example how would someone get from
one side to another and would the time
dilation affect trained schedules
wow oh you know that is actually one of
those questions that we
a a birch planet is in theory a plant
the size of earth although probably many
levels of shells right but a single
planet birch planet one is something
like a fifth of a light year across or
it could be a lot smaller than that too
we always the boss plants meant to be
anything that's a a galactic core mass
of like a million
uh solar masses or more but i think on
the show most folks tend to discuss it
as the galaxy mass one which is
something like a million times heavier
uh it's just that whole range but even
the small one is is so huge compared to
a dyson sphere
that it it's it's the idea that you
never actually want to bother making a
trip like that other than say you had
wouldn't make much sense it's not that
huge of a distance though i mean
even the biggest ones on the light year
across so you can cover that distance if
you can cover it to get built in the
first place uh how you do it is hard to
say but we usually assume a lot of
vacuum trains are in case like this i
don't think about any piece of structure
like this you'd never let anything move
uh at a relative speed uh that was high
enough to be you know nuclear if it
impacted so you might need to spend a
century moving the other side of that
thing but you could you know you can
imagine people migrating from one side
to another on something like that over
the course of millions of years but you
could think of covenant a lot last time
that even as huge as theirs just because
scale
so that raises a question here from
peyton turner is it possible that we can
explore other planets while in the
process destroying other planets like we
are destroying the earth
um
well i mean you got to keep in mind we
say we are destroying the earth we mean
the biosphere on earth the thin leo
slime covering it that is yeah this is a
planet um and it is huge it is
gigantically enormous and
our whole ecosystem is
like a kilometer of it and even that is
is in most cases an overestimate
um
and so when we say destroying it people
ask sometimes what if we wreck this
planet can we go to mars and terraform
it or if we could tail for mars would
that make people more inclined to wreck
this planet
you could nuke this planet till it
glowed in the dark and you burned off
every last bit of air and ocean from it
and which would take huge amounts of
energy far beyond what we could do right
now
if we wanted to uh and yet it would
still
still be easier to tear from that
lifeless glass ball of radioactive uh
you know bearing debris than it would be
the terraform venus or mars
but terraforming a planet is also an
inherently destructive thing in the
first place you do not learn how to
terraform a planet you not do these
things unless you can
fix the one we're on right now it's a
war because you're talking about
building an entire ecosystem from
scratch on alien world with minimal
resources that you belong these are not
easy things to do they're somehow like
oh yeah let's discard the planet we're
on because it's so much easier to tell
from another planet that's not how that
works you know
uh as to can we explore wards while
damaging this well of course we're good
we already are but should we uh well
obviously not presumably i would say the
answer to that one is probably a big no
but uh you know we can we yes yeah but
we can certainly wreck this planet we'll
explore the other ones
jacob says you've mentioned that you've
been surprised by spacex's progress with
reusable boosters any other examples
that you'd be glad to be wrong about the
rate of technological progress
um hmm
not a i i i wouldn't really be happy if
ai progressed faster than i thought it
would um
i'd be i would love to see faster
progress on any energy producing
technology at all those would be the
ones i i would so love to be wrong about
as is i do expect those to move
reasonably quickly on the grand scale of
things um
you know i would love to see almost any
energy producing storing technology you
know previous about the speed of which
throughout the
um
and in almost every case there are very
few technologies that i would mind
seeing develop faster than they are now
but as a noted techno optimist i usually
on the optimistic side of development
timelines for these things anyway so you
know i wouldn't mind if we developed a
way of doing warp travel for instance
it's just that i don't expect that to be
in the codes in a non-destructive bad
way but if we can get it like this in
sci-fi oh yeah great
i'd love that
so israel the bro says what factor of
safety would you use if you were
designing an o'neill cylinder for
yourself to live in
for myself to live in uh i mean if i get
my whole one like ozzie isaacs from
peter hamilton's commonwealth saga where
he the guy is insanely rich because he
developed the wormhole gateway of the
partner uh so basically there's a patent
dot interstellar travel so he had his
own sono built privately in an asteroid
um he's the only one who lives there
it's like his getaway uh i have no idea
what he actually had for his safety
factor in that but you know
you
you want it built like you want anything
else in engineering builds as cheaply as
you can while keeping it safe and these
are you know we do those margins that we
develop
based on
actuarial tables and actual experience i
work on the assumption that if a habitat
is being built
it should be built along the idea that
you can maintain it for less than you
know less than a few percent of its
actual original cost per year right
um and that you can do so indefinitely
and that is one of those things where
you you want solid if you want people
living there they need to be confident
that the floor is not going to fly
underneath them yeah that would be nice
especially if you plan on me living
there with you but yes yes i would i
choose though i i'm really not that
anxious to leave this planet myself so
chucci says how prevalent our climate
apocalypse themes in science fiction
i guess that's uh depends on which ones
you've read yeah no i well it's a
popular one um
there are things that are much on the
human conscious and they vary from time
to time regardless of what your opinions
on those matters are individually like
the day the earth stood still uh the
original 1950s film was almost all about
the idea of eternal warfare because they
were just coming out of you know world
war ii not that long to world war one
and then decree and other things like
that so it was on the public mindset
well we've actually had a relatively
peaceful time
uh in the last uh what 70 years since
that relatively speaking compared to the
periods of human uh existence
uh ultimately i'm not sure what 60s and
70s would have had specifically you see
it a lot in star trek there were a lot
of themes there
uh there was always sorts of
overpopulation i would say it was the
dominant theme of a lot of the 60s and
70s apocalypses that we were going to
just keep bringing our numbers after we
lived in these these horrible concrete
you know cylinder you know it's not some
of those city escapes across the whole
planet that will baron and uh you know
awful place to live and you've
consistent on capitalism maybe in the
80s and i say well you had the court
warfare still going on your nuclear war
killing your way off but also you start
seeing like ozone what's been so and
then uh very big concerns about ozone
layer uh and it's just that's just those
are the dominant themes on a lot of
sci-fi writer's hands so they reflect
themselves into the sci-fi time
um
and sometimes that has a good impact on
civilization getting us to shift well
with the young a lot of times it can
be unrealistic in portrayal and things
like that too but
it's good to have them discussed i think
in that format
scooter gsp says even though it's not a
perfect one-to-one analog to real earth
physics do you think that the game
kerbal space program is a good tool for
getting young people interested in space
engineering oh yeah well well let's put
it this way um
most of my actual geography that i have
a lot of geography and history because i
learned out of games like europa
universe or sydney o's uh alva centauri
or sorry samir's railroads like both
those games or any number of other games
that were not really that realistic but
they got my interest going for it uh you
know the anno series of games down
discovery um those are not really all
that terribly realistic economically you
know just like my whole population seems
to live on things like apples and wood
you know or the old warcraft ones where
you mined gold and things crystals or
maybe that was total annihilation anyway
those simple economy games or those
simple grand strategy games they're not
hyper realistic you know and the same
applies for simulation games like trains
or airplanes or spaceship programs trade
programs uh like eve online
um
of course they're still handy you know
but like you know it's just like sci-fi
you don't watch star wars and know how
to build a spaceship and nor do you know
much about physics but it doesn't mean
that you might not decide you want to
learn more about them so yeah i love
realism these things but i don't like it
to be a straight jacket to prevent
people being creative about it or you
create good books or games or movies etc
well with that it's time to take a break
we're going to come back though and be
talking about orbital rings the fermi
paradox and genetic modifications so
wow sounds awesome stay tuned
so we'll be on break for a few minutes
and it's a great chance to grab a drink
and a snack
we were also on break from our normal
livestream last month while i was at the
international space development
conference hosted by the national space
society and we broadcast my talk to them
live in our normal live stream time
you can catch the replay of that but
it's the talk that inspired me to redo
our original episode on megastructures
as the two hour feature film length
episode the make a structural compendium
but also to write another episode
planets vs megastructures which is over
on nebula right now
it was a great conference and a great
place to get some new ideas for episodes
and i want to thank them for hosting me
i also want to give a shout out to the
ohio aerospace institute where i gave a
talk about a month back on
biotechnologies and nasa glenn research
center for giving sarah and i a tour
while we were there which was the first
one they'd done since before kovid
it was fun doing some live appearances
and talks again but i'm glad to be back
to our normal format of answering
questions in the chat
still we do often miss questions for
time constraints and you can post those
in the comments on the live stream
afterwards we had one after live stream
from jolly blonde giant asking hey isaac
you've mentioned cougar blitz black hole
drives in a previous episode has anyone
thought about how singularity would be
contained in moodle of the ship
and that's a great question and also
related to folks wondering how we can
move a star via shikar of thruster or
similar without touching them physically
the short answer for kuka blitz black
holes or other larger ones is that we
usually assume three ways of pushing on
them the first would be by magnetics as
any rotating black hole which is
essentially any natural one and usually
any artificial one you can make too can
also have a charge on it all it needs is
slightly more protons than electrons or
vice versa now it's charged and moving
and that means it has a magnetic field
and is subject to them so you can shove
on them magnetically
the alternative methods are to shove on
it with either a beam of particles like
the fuel you replace the expended energy
with or a beam of laser light and none
of these are exclusive incidentally you
can use them in tandem and indeed the
cougar blitz black hole derives its name
from an assumption you're creating a
micro black hole by large pulses of
photon energy delivered to a single
point in space and time of sufficient
density to create a black hole
we tend to think of black holes as
something nothing can escape and this
isn't really part of the core theory on
them but more of a mostly accurate but
simplified popular commentary on them in
fact it's really hard to get anything
into one in the first place which makes
feeding them with beams of light to let
alone charged particles fairly difficult
alternatively switching over to moving
stars briefly one thing that does escape
black holes is gravity which you want to
think of philosophically or in
metaphysical terms also means the
information of the black hole's mass
position and velocity can escape from it
gravity may or may not have a
transmitting particle the graviton like
light and electromagnetism having a
photon or virtual photon but
nevertheless transmits between objects
and at the speed of light too gravity
and light move at the same speed
so does cause and effect and we can
determine that by looking at how objects
influence each other when moving
in the case of the shikata thruster
where we place a ton of neo's orbeez
star or statites or lagot equivalents we
can bounce light off some of them in the
opposite direction and thus move them
away from the star but they are pulling
on that star with their own
gravitational force and that's what tugs
in their direction
in terms of net force imagine a single
static mirror hanging over a star
reflecting back toward the star in a
wide cone so much light went off on past
the star it's held in place by the sun's
gravity and the sun's light cancelling
out but the net system now has more
photons moving in one direction than the
other and just like any rocket star and
mir are move in the opposite direction
of that photon surplus
and that's how you move stars not very
high tech at all and a lot easier than
moving black holes though there too the
physics and technology involved are
surprisingly uncomplicated
anyway excellent question and speaking
of those let's get back to more of your
questions and back to our show
and we're back
welcome back to part two for everybody
and we'll get to some more questions
just a moment but as i was mentioning
sarah and i were traveling over the
weekend to go to a wedding by the way so
before i forget again let me go ahead
and congratulate uh our younger sister
kyrie uh and dustin silman on their
their
wedding uh yesterday afternoon so i mean
they have the best times together and a
long happy union for
my own partner i happen to love being
married so it's great isn't it it is
definitely thank you
um all right well jumping back in then
to the question from melancholy how
would you keep an orbital ring in a
polar inclination stationary compared to
the ground without using propellant to
constantly change the orbit
you know this is actually one of the
episodes the next one i have to write uh
sometimes a couple days on tethered
rings which is going to be interesting
topic to look at they're a very similar
concert to the oberlo ring but they they
are
the the active sport there is about
keeping things rigid as opposed to
keeping up
and you do that by tethering into the
ground in that case and same here for
procession
you can do an orbital ring around the
equator that really doesn't process much
uh in of itself but
even then it's going to want to process
a little bit or wobble a little bit it's
just left to itself because the plant's
not a perfect homogenous feel
and because things will be touching the
ring and moving your bumpy end so what
you do is you tether it just with like
guy wireless and there's nothing too
complicated there uh the more you want
to tilt it off of that the more you put
in a position where it wants to process
like you wouldn't pull the orbit for
instance or anything like if you want to
tilt it so it was covering say
a pathway between japan and santa monica
which i actually had done an example of
when i was doing that conference for the
japanese consulate a few months back
um then you need to really have strong
tethers however uh the kind of tethers
you need something like that are still
something like graphene or kevlar
there's still quite a lot of strength
but nothing like you need for a space
elevator it's not even that same scale
so you can still do that pretty easily
and you just keep the ring in place in
that way to avoid possession by angry to
the ground with you know guy whiles and
then you use those guy wires to either
send power up to keep the ring running
or to send people up and possibly write
back down again that's the cool thing
about the orbital ring is it's not just
for getting space it's your hyper-fast
method of traveling around the planet
too
all right the next question here thank
you dara cloak for your super chat
hi isaac and sarah what's the most
likely solution to the fermi paradox in
your opinion
oh
um i suppose that's questions whether
it's yours am i but we'll go with mine
um i officially am agnostic on the topic
of what the solution to fully paradox is
i think it's important that i stay that
way and it's
it's not you know um applying that much
effort either because i've never found
one solution before we paid arts that i
was really happy with right
but to me it's not a question what the
best answer is the fluent paradox is
which one's the least worst and we
should probably definitely do a
compendium episode for the forward
paradox that might not be the mega
structure someone
um
and uh
to me though the one that has the least
flaws in it it would be the railroad
intelligence camp which we you know we
discussed a lot on the show is is that
it's not that life forms blow them up so
you know so is up when they get
technology so much as technology just
doesn't get developed that much and
whether that's because
life is unique to this planet and
there's no other place in the universe
we'd find even a simple bacteria or
whether it's just that the whole
universe is swarming with animal life
and plant life but nothing really with a
big brain or it's all covered in algae i
don't know
but rare intelligence doesn't base on
what's what the reason why it's rare is
either because things just don't develop
brains or they just don't develop in the
first place but just says that overall
you're real they are and that to me is
the one that has the least number of
flaws in it but again least number of
flaws if not great solution
all right semen udon says if one alien
civilization is cautious what do they
need to do to communicate between their
colonized systems without having their
messages detected by other aliens
um tight beam laser i should go on that
point and we're saying
best solution avoid paradox if i had to
phrase one it's that something that we
think of as a fundamental truth about
the universe these days and it could be
something really big like you know if
there's actually a real universe out
there or a simulation or if evolution
doesn't work the way we think it is or
enable things like that that's something
we take for granted as a common sense
piece of
you know psychology sociology economics
uh biology or physics is wrong
that's my best guess for the actual
answer the phobia paradox no idea which
one it is which is that our
understanding is missing something
critical we got something wrong but
um same then for going to how do you
send transmissions assuming you're
limited to
your known physics that you have to send
it by
uh by electromagnetic signal or hard
copy by actually setting out a spaceship
um as opposed to something really cool
like a gateway network or you know uh
some weird fortune or quantum
entanglement that doesn't work like that
but uh but you know for that walk you
can send messages that way tight beam
laser from point a to point b would be a
good way to do it and encrypted on a
one-time pad one-time pads are
unbreakable unless you actually have a
copy of the pad it's not one of those
things like well they're unbreakable by
your model computer they're unbreakable
that's just you cannot break them
through cryptography uh you can get a
copy of the paper that's it and they
look like absolute noise otherwise if
you do not have it it's gonna look like
noise any compressed signal it looks as
close to noise you can get too that's
the thing to keep in mind it's the more
you compress it say no the whole idea of
compression of any signal is to remove
as much pattern from it as possible and
say this thing that repeated 20 times
moves into place with x repeats 20 times
so you remove so many patterns with it
eventually it looks like noise anyway so
a really good compressed message and a
really good uh encrypted message both
look really close to noise and
a tight beam that was highly compressed
and encrypted
would basically look like absolute
gibberish and you know but you would
still and this is the key one
i do not have to know
uh what your email says right
to be able to crack that email to know
that you sent one so
it's not a question of like am i hiding
my signals you're going to know that
there's a lot of radio traffic out of a
system well there's a lot of you know
tight beams moving out of the system
it comes from scatter or things that are
just weird but you won't know what they
say so you do know that something is
going on in most of those cases
very weak very minimal and if you really
want to keep people from knowing about
your signals the best way to do that is
to keep them
faint and keep them rare
so that probably the way we go with that
valdorg says considering the amount of
genetic modification those living in
space may require what is your personal
threshold for accepting some gene
therapy or modification you're told that
you need
uh i don't really have one um you know
to me those are things you do on a
case-by-case basis we're very right i
think we're very wise to contemplate all
these ideas in advance
not so much for coming up the right
answer but to avoid a knee-jerk response
to them a lot of times when new bits of
technology come up as as a moral issue
folks go in with an assumption
of of you know they they decide what the
answer is supposed to be ethically and
they stick to that
and it takes a lot of time to peel that
away that hold us very badly with
nuclear technologies for instance but um
yeah
if you read or order science fiction
you're finally all constantly worrying
about like how
is someone really human if you give them
a mechanical halt and to most of us
these days the answer would be well yes
of course they're still human if they
can't behold
um
we didn't say that even transplanting a
hand from another person another person
is uh the basis for a horror movie with
the hands from some convicted felon who
uh was executed and their body was
divvied up to people on the organ donor
list and now it's going around community
motors i think that was the a
multi-series horror movie plot
but
when it comes these things
my only real piece of advice is if
you're talking about
personhood and humanity possible
basically you know change our lives
these days but you know when we're
talking about whether or not someone is
a person with rights right
you want to set yourself up to
for some easy probable cause right a
toaster i don't have to assume a toaster
is might be human there's no reason to
think it has thoughts and feelings but
if something hits that probable cause so
if i like that google ai recently if it
hits a proper cosmos someone might think
um this might really be a person right
uh that that's a really not not a crazy
idea then i would say at that point you
really want to be approaching anything
from the idea that you need to disprove
beyond a reasonable doubt that they are
important that the burden of proof is on
those seeking to
make something not a person once you've
established a probable cause that it is
one
and so we start talking about too much
genetic modification that makes
something not a human you know is a
human who's got wings still human
i don't know it depends on how you want
to say what's what what is human rather
than a person well i think the answer
that's probably going to be a yes right
um you don't
probably want to close these things by
you you shouldn't be including
everything probably right there does
need to be some line i'm sure but at the
same time
air on the side of caution and and and
when that involves whether or not
someone
is a human or not is a person or not
probably don't be too
uh too quick to say well this thing that
has like a half computer brain for
instance or it doesn't barely have any
human dna anymore this is not a person
just because
even though it acts like one of many
ways it doesn't meet this this
qualification we've said there's a great
treatment of that in the positronic man
um from uh
isaac asimov and rob with silverbot it
kind of looks at that issue in more
detail
a little dated but it's there
all right so
and i think that kind of jumps us ahead
to another question and i'll come back
to
uh this one so we have c stallion thank
you for your super chat uh see stallion
and how much do you
how much impact do you think the coming
global global demographic collapse and
the resulting collapse of globalization
have on the future of the space program
there's a projection of a billion deaths
due to starvation minimum
i think that is probably a very wildly
high projection to be honest
um but you know
i'm not an expert to discuss you know
how things like uh globalization's
economic impacts gonna happen or whether
or not we're going to be running out of
grain this winter or something like that
um i
think though that
the question always comes up do we need
to be really unified as as a as a as a
civilization as a war to do something
like space travel
and i would say well all the space
travel we really got doing for the space
race was very much not the product of
unity it was you know an outlier
competition
uh between two you know war seeking
empires and at the same time i think it
always is beneficial to if you have
peace and friendship keep it that way
right if you can
be friendly with other folks that that
definitely helps but do not assume that
we actually need any kind of unification
to get stuff done uh you know we have a
lot of historical examples where
that was not the case so
hopefully
we can
i have to find out in that case though
almost makes this gentleman's name up so
similar uh scott seabrook says hi isaac
can you think of any practical uses for
our planetary roche limits
um
well
well the most limited planet is
essentially where uh
we're an object that's that's
self-gravity bound like a moon uh can
can be torn apart by the gravity beings
too strong on one side of the planet
it's like if we were very close to
another earth but right near our surface
you know if we were like touching with
two double planets the gravity that one
was exerting on the surface closest to
it would actually be
equal to what the gravity of that object
was giving itself at that surface and
when you talk about orbits and movements
and things like that that can start
causing a plan to get straightened apart
or a moon would actually be stronger
right there's a certain distance at
which the thing is going to start
falling apart from the outside and
moreover we're talking about something
that's actually like planetary scale you
know since it's not just a compact
object but he got all that tectonic
activity and convectional motion and
rotation you could have some big issue
as well before you got there that level
of gravity as to where they actually
have a practical example
you know you don't build things to be
self-gravitating that you plan to put in
your other big objects by and large
because the whole point of most of what
make structures is to say about mass
um
i
think maybe if you really want you know
if you found that you really didn't like
rotating habitats and you had an awful
lot of master store like dark matter
because you figured out how to tap it or
uh something like um you know you just
had a lot of hydrogen helium stored for
fusion or black hole uses later that
maybe you build a lot of artificial
plants of the classical spherical
variety uh many layered ones for
instance i could definitely see that
people might want to have hard point
connections between tightly locked ones
way way back we did uh i think was
habitable plants episode five from the
old habit plant series that we did in
like year one um we looked at double
planets i've never repeated that episode
i've really gone back to that topic
since but that would be an interesting
one to look at is there was double
plants devotion wars and what do you
actually happen when you have like a
dumbbell shaped planet so an old gem if
you don't mind the bad visuals and audio
okay
christian
carollo thank you for your super chat
which aliens and spaceships from sci-fi
are your favorite and why and also
between warp drive folding space and
warm
worm holes
which is the most achievable based on
our current knowledge and latest
research
there's a lot of sci-fi fantasies to
pick from um you know as a whole like my
favorite sci-fi franchises tend to be
very space operating uh whereas my
favorite like aliens from sci-fi tend to
be where it's so it's not gonna be like
the vulcans or the klingons but it's
basically us but a little bit more of a
you know warrior theme or a logic theme
i like aliens that are hyper alien um
and not necessarily like love crafty and
novelithoppa as darth lovers of cthulhu
like crazy but uh um
very alien aliens and
uh like one of the ones from peter watts
blind side novel a very good example of
just very alien psychology as are some
of the non-alien enemies in that book
um i don't know that i actually have a
favor though because you know the i like
them because they're so
crazy alien
uh but at the same time it's not you
really like them much they just you like
them as a example
as to what was the other part it was
about warp drives or mm-hmm
also between a warp drive folding space
and wormholes which is the most
achievable based on current knowledge
um
oh
ah you know that i don't believe any of
them are cheap my court knowledge we
have no obvious method for 14 space and
the way that people usually would
suggest anyone as we just looked in the
40 space episode um so i would say that
would have to go to probably the warp
drive
um
as we actually could do negative energy
hypothetically whereas we
then i'd say probably the wall
whoop drive then warm horse and floating
space and pretty much that order but i
would say that's kind of like
which is a more infinite number or
what's what's more impossible this
impossible thing of that impossible
thing
okay so i'm thinking here
that we have time for
a lightning round i was trying to make
sure i got all the in-depth questions
and we have quite a few that are a
little bit shorter and i want to try to
fit them in before the end of our time
here so
shorter answers
maybe like 30 seconds um
we'll start off here with philip murphy
if this channel had a membership what
would you offer
if this channel had a membership what
did i offer
um the cheerful sound of my own voice
speaking to you for 30 minutes a week
i've never really liked the idea of too
many specialized things for that i often
hesitate even things like nebula of
having exclusive episodes like mexican
there's one up on the screen right now
even that's the assumption we'll bring
that over at some point for the main
channel so but we did have at least at
one time mugs and some of those oh yeah
well actually that we're supposed to be
putting new merchandise out this
upcoming month it just depends on when
brick gets back about the the original
markup spell
if you're wondering for the purpose of
merchandise we've kind of downplayed
that for a while because i got to be
kind of unhappy with the company that i
was working with on that but i wasn't
quite the way i'm cutting them off and
now they seem to have disappeared into
uh
webspam yeah
so all right
um
vincent walden rivera says do you think
the car industry will go back to making
boxy cars similar to those of the 1970s
once most cars become electric and fuel
economy isn't a problem um
wow you know i'm bad about predicting
things like that like the pt cruiser i
thought that car was incredibly ugly and
i understand people want to drive i
think it doesn't look like a horse to me
yeah it's really popular
um i'm a sedan person but i'm very fond
of humvees so my time the surface too so
i don't know
um
owen lewis i'm curious what is your
opinion on colonizing our solar system
is it worth trying to live on the
surface of mars or worth trying to live
on the high atmosphere of venus oh yes
absolutely it's worth trying
i'm a big fan of space habitats but yes
i think it's worth trying
that that's not a 30 second answer
that's a really challenging okay
lightning lightning round all right all
right we're going uh dagger co-h thank
you hey isaac following
for years by this point many thanks for
doing this could we push lasers in front
of a laser-propelled ship to slow it
down again
um yes right you could do that in system
i'll give a longer answer on this one
like let's say i want to push a ship
with lasers or some other particle or
beaming system from earth to jupiter
what i do is i go ahead and build a meal
and i put an all around jupiter
gravitationally weight down to it which
means it's pressure can't be in excess
of what what the vehicle could be held
to the gravity with and then i shoot
that laser off of that beam you know as
i said that ship to jupiter i shoot it
towards jupiter bounce off that mirror
which is gravitationally anchored to
jupiter and then hit the ship that
slowed down that slowly moves jupiter
away but it's kind of like
trying to go like
to a mountain in time the mountain could
move in practice it
be very patient
sana bella says what happens to
professional acting once cgi and deep
fakes get good and cheap enough to
replace an a-list actor
um you know i would say that you're
probably always going to i mean if your
ai is good enough to be able to actually
do a really good performance then it
probably counts as a person again there
you saw the other zone where it probably
put you know gets that zone um
you know doing voiceovers for the show
there's a lot to that and i've been
hearing like i remember and i don't like
to beat up any other futurists but there
was so much talk about how we have voice
activated everything by the year 2010
back around when we you know the turn of
the century and if someone had quite the
speech impediment that was quite used to
the voice technology we had really
gobbling anything i said horribly uh
they do that even now to some degree
though it's gotten a little bit easier
um i never really thought they'd be able
to get that that fast and i was quite
right
um one of those examples was pessimistic
on technology i don't think deep fakes
are going to be quite as as as big a
threat as people think for these things
and the other follow-up i'd have on that
is when we first started getting
photoshop you know when that term
started becoming the the you know a meme
of itself uh people were worried that
they'd be constantly used for like
bribes or blackmail and stuff like that
but well i'm sure that's happened here
and there it's never really developed
that degree that every last thing is
airbrushed and photographed like people
tend to think
i like these little memes that people
are dropping in that say keep it up with
the little dancing dude
those are new i i can see them kind of
like the side bit of obs over here uh or
streaming as obs i see from jamie
russell and thomas by sankey
yeah so thanks for the super chat and
the little dude all right we've got a
few more uh lightning round questions
here harrison slocum if a successful
theory to unify gravity with the other
fundamental forces of physics were found
then what technological breakthroughs do
you think would follow this discovery if
any
the fastest transit possible to
scandinavia to get a nobel prize uh you
know i i reject the idea of the grand
unified theory as a necessity i i would
be happy if we got one one day but i
think there's this tendency to assume
that we should be able to actually unify
all the physical forces uh just because
we unified the earlier ones like
electromagnetism the magnitude you know
magnesium electricity together or the
weak nuclear force to that as well for
the electro big force a gravity is such
a weird audible it's our orders force is
the other one we were the least about in
many ways
um i don't think you have to have a
grand unified theory for it to walk out
that being said if you get one and then
we won't mind right i don't know that we
need one but if it's if you i don't know
what happened to be true or i'd be on my
way to skin maybe right now to pick my
nobel prize um and um
i think uh
if it was true the big one you'd see
from that is
probably the ability to control gravity
uh any type of anti-gravity or focused
beam of gravity type thing which we
already know we can't do from some of
our black hole border options that would
be the big one there and if you got that
that is amazing you know what if we've
done our graph yeah we did another see
our anti-gravity episode for more
details there you go there we go
autonomy thank you for your super chat
actually it's a very big super chat so
30 second questions i either want to do
one sentence or like 10 minutes yes
exactly one sentence works do you think
the new graphite batteries that tesla is
apparently developing will be a major
upgrade to battery technology
um you know ever since the space axis
and i try never to assume uh anything
with elon musk technologies so concerned
um
because every time i think he's gonna
have something that doesn't work out it
tends to pan out which i think for sure
it's going to work it tends not to
that was the other part of the question
do you know of any issues that could
hinder the technology
i think that that graphene batteries is
going to be a very real thing although
my personal suspicion is that another 2d
material will turn out to be better for
individual applications so graphene
awesome but some other 2d material will
beat it out and some of that special
usage
um see our 2d see our portable power
episode for more discussion how awesome
such things would be
crossover maniac thank you for your
super chat isn't the gray goo scenario
unrealistic barring nano machines
transmuting atoms into elements that can
be used to make more nano machines how
could they replicate on a hydrogen gas
giant like jupiter um well you could
theoretically replicate the deep space
habitats way uh you which is you fuse
all the material and all the other
metals
um i know i don't think the gray goo one
is actually and i think there's a
mistake here people make is to assume
that the gray gear thing is meant to be
an exact prediction the idea is that if
you have self-replicating machines right
um they're going to make more of the
cells so that's all there is um there
are lots of ways that can break down
modern examination it's not it's not a
threat but obviously self-abc machines
would be quite a thing and say our
planet presumably got green good at some
point
guy haley i think it was he's one of the
writers for the uh warhammer 40k series
in the novel called belisarius called
the great walk
um it's one of those examples of of
surprisingly good sci-fi out of a
serious kind of choice for its bad
science realism
in that one things they point out i
think was with the the necron
self-replicators is that you get layers
of these things on top of each other so
what you have is the ones that are
damaged or dead i have all buried
underneath the ones below them until the
magma layer or the planets of course the
same thing implies they're not running
on on you know sun power when they're
layers deep right they're not running on
uh they're going to get burned up and
melted so you get this kind of oozing
leon biosystem up on top of it
um i think that you have a
ecosystem break apart at that point in
time the you know ones that ate each
other and stuff like that so again
gregoo i think would tend to follow a
green goo scenario very quickly
christian carello thank you for your
super chat what a motivation for
genetically modifying humans to live on
other planets be adding genetic
diversity to humanity so that we don't
become stagnant
um no i i don't think that civilizations
though technologically advanced k about
genetics who won't see at all
they're going to care about diversity of
thought concept uh custom et cetera but
genetic diversity is just like a little
side though it's like you know fashion
diversity it's not like it doesn't
matter at all it's just not really you
know if you're a masters of genetic
engineering it's it's an interesting
topic for you but it's not really that
important because you're not worried
about your civilization fire apart
because your genes go bad it's going to
tweak them as needed
philip murphy says if you wanted to do a
video on rna development how would you
cover it
to be honest i probably wouldn't uh i
hate to say it but the audience does not
like our biology based episodes that
much we do them occasionally when we
need to but uh i think the with the low
reception or non-carbon-based life
episode which is specifically not about
normal biology uh all biology episodes
are not the ones that people really tend
to enjoy as much and maybe that's more
biology questions on the live streams
than we ever do on the actual channel
yeah probably i mean it's it's not the
folks don't watch all the episodes still
too but maybe it's not really my
specialty i mean i was a biophysicist in
grad school but i didn't really enjoy it
so it's not because i kept up on much
scaredy51 wants to know how you come up
with new topics um sometimes people
randomly suggest them doing the live
stream uh so
somebody said one earlier today i can't
wait oh decelerating spaceships so
that's probably gonna be some episode
sometimes they come to me randomly
sometimes i get them off the book jacket
of one of my books to see on my shows
over the other side but i'm not gonna
rotate the camera focus that never works
out well uh sometimes folks suggest them
sometimes we do pores on them we're
about to run run on our patreon so
speaking of coincidentally every couple
of months i will ask the patreon
audience for episode suggestions and
then we want to pull over there and
usually i'll do one or two of the
episodes do better there and sometimes
that's we we see those youtube polls
where only i do five topics i've often
harvested those from either the patreon
group or facebook group so if you want
input on our episodes for those kind of
polls either join our facebook group or
patreon group and uh and you'll have a
chance to vote on those and there's one
clear up on patreon sometime next week
or so
s j bynes says understanding the alien
language
what with ai being used more and more
and becoming more sophisticated plus
dedicated hardware accelerated perhaps
we could decipher such a language given
time
um
i mean i'm really not worried about
being able to decipher alien languages
weirdly enough i think what people miss
a lot of our old languages like uh
whatever they spoke in harappa um you
know in in that ancient indian
civilization we we are talking about
having maybe 500 words that are not in a
unified sentence in a place that didn't
have dictionaries spread over various
towns that had slow communication done
over centuries those are going to be
very broken if you look at something old
english you know for instance trying to
actually read old english script uh it
can be very hard and if you got one
sentence from there one for the 1920s
one from australia in the 1970s and
those are your only examples that's not
really a crackable code alternatively
billions and billions of words coming to
communications frankly from a
standardized advanced civilization
probably a lot more crackable
so so our answers in the lightning round
got a little extended
right now
you know a few minutes
so so i'm going to wrap it up with just
a comment here from devon latson thank
you devin for your super chat and he
says thank you for helping all of us
fall in love with science and be more
optimistic about the future well thank
you for that comment it always cheers me
up when i get things like that as they
usually like my favorites off of people
or things like that or when i get
somebody invites me saying i've been
watching the show for years and it got
me to go into physics or engineering or
something like that and study it so i
actually met a couple people who uh who
were at the international space
development conference because they had
watched the show and got in that field
so that's a nice feeling so
tg is awesome in any format you choose
to do it i said all right so i guess
we're going to go ahead and close up
there for the week um
and uh i know there's some kind of they
too tired this week i can't remember
what i was going to say it's my
close-out
we've had a great
episode uh live stream we've had
everybody stayed with us the whole time
so thank you so much well thank you
everybody and as usual thanks for
watching and have a great week see you
thursday
so that will wrap us up for the day i
know i remember what i was going to say
but
if your question didn't get answered
today put in the comments at the end of
the episode and i'll try to get to them
or we'll use them as they open up for
next month and with that said thanks for
watching and have a great week
so that will wrap us up for the day i
want to thank everyone for joining us
and again if we didn't get your question
feel free to post as a comment below and
i'll try to get to it this evening
also you can continue the conversation
at any of the forums on facebook reddit
discord or our website isaacarthur.net
thanks for joining us and we'll see you
thursday
[Music]
