[Music]
good afternoon everyone and welcome to
the sfia monthly live stream q a
we'll get started in just a moment but
go ahead and start getting your
questions in the chat window so our
monorails can start relaying those
tubing as soon as we start please try to
keep the questions concise and watch
your spelling and try to be polite to
others in the chat we usually go for
about an hour so you probably want to
grab a drink and a snack though we'll
take a break about halfway through too
with all that said welcome and let's get
started
good afternoon everyone and welcome to
another science and futurism with Isaac
Arthur live stream uh at the end of the
month live stream q a chat and as usual
we are joined by my lovely co-host and
wife Sarah falartho who will be taking
your questions from our moderators in
the chat and as usual if you put the
questions in the chat try to put them in
as a uh concisely and legibly as
possible to increase the odds of getting
asked and and so insanely as per our
incident with the vacuum raccoons
oh my so do we have any questions to
start off with well the first question
uh that we should talk about is your
shirt oh yeah so so for those of you who
didn't notice uh I am wearing a short
that uh well if you're not getting the
joke you probably won't get now but I
did turn 42 uh last week and uh this is
the birthday present or early birthday
presents my wife got me and uh she's a
very awesome person
so uh obviously I'm a big Doug of Sam's
fan and of course we all know the secret
to life the universe everything is and I
try to convince myself this time around
that I actually turned 42 and stayed
there for a few years unlike before
because I've been 26 for some years and
uh sometime in my 10th 26th birthday I
decided to be mid 30s four bits now I'm
42 and I'll stay that way for 10 to 12
years probably so
oh well we'd like to welcome to the live
stream today uh the first few people who
said hi we have silver Johnson player
67543 Century 22
uh hexless armaeus and something that I
can't read that is very long and random
but says hello
people do have the most interesting
username sometimes huh sometimes so the
first question here is actually from
Timothy Kuiper and he says since the
James Webb Telescope is an infrared
telescope are the pictures produced
basically a Photoshop image created from
raw data
um almost every deep space picture you
see is I think Photoshop would be the
kind of way of saying it um the the
space web telescope unlike Hubble does
not look in a frequency that you and I
can see with our eyes uh it would be
looking at I think it's 0.6 microns to
about 30 microns and that'll correspond
to about
um about 20 times hotter than the human
body is in in absolute Kelvin
um no that's not quite right uh two um
to a half hour temperature so you'll see
relatively cool planets and then demo
Star Wars red dwars things like that
you're not you don't pick up North Stars
anyway but you're not looking anything
with visual light coming out of it so
um when I was into it with the Air Force
way way back when I was 19 or what was
we had this nice little infrared viewer
that you could set the temperature range
to efficiency range on top and bottom at
and he just said to show you that image
we have like uh white or red is like the
coldest temperature of the black and the
hottest and just shows you that range as
you know those colors that's basically
what we're doing here these are real
images but they wouldn't be visible to
your eyes so kind of like if we uh if we
had something that was intensely one
shade of blue but many different shades
in that range we might take that image
and Photoshop it so the stuff that was
very light blue was green and very dark
blue was purple just to make it more
visually understandable so it's kind of
like a radar image right of clouds and
Rain only
we're not looking at water content well
yeah I mean right all images is actually
one of the big ones and those are
usually microwave but uh Reno is
absolutely tuned into something that you
and I can see we get to see that on the
clouds obviously when I'm showing them
just various shades of white because it
doesn't help as much so we do a color
map or you know for heat Maps sometimes
those things so it's a real image but
it's not one that your eye could see
that's one cool thing about being say a
post image you might actually have
eyeballs you can see in that frequency
but you need very large and chord
eyeballs to see that the Jameson
telescope has to operate at uh chronic
temperatures it would actually be well
cryogenic temperatures be able to
actually see these things so well the
next question is going to be from DT
finum hey Isaac in your opinion to what
extent would modern languages diverge
over the next 300 years as we spread out
across the solar system
um
you know it was uh actually was playing
Dungeons and Dragons or actually
Pathfinder but uh last night with some
friends and by by coincidence my
character did not speak the same
language as most of the most of the
party so I was enjoying role playing
basically someone who has a very broken
understanding of language and didn't get
euphemisms uh which you have so much fun
with but if you've ever read anything
like the early 1900s and then compared
to like now in English for instance
there's some big differences not just
you know Regional in terms of
Expressions but flavors but the language
is still pretty understandable you go
back 300 Euros though that would be what
early 1700s you can still read it but
there's definitely some big differences
if you're trying to read Old English
pre-shakespeare English right it's
almost unintelligible you know you can
train yourself to read it at speed but
you're not really reading English
anymore
um
you're gonna have a lot of language
devotions even with inside the same
language right we've kept that failure
standardized uh at the same time though
I think that what we'll see in a lot of
cases is more towards a move to uh very
complex automated translation so you'll
see more Divergence while you're also
the same time see more standardization
if that makes sense
okay ready for the next question is the
husband
I am D1
scooter GSP if our ancestors would
believe that today's technology was
magic what would be one of the first
Technologies of the future that we today
would consider magic if we were to
witness it
um yeah that's actually kind of a tricky
one because we say the clock Tech thing
that uh certain Advanced Technologies or
instinctual magic and we probably put a
caveat on that all ancestors did not
think that magic was magic anymore they
didn't really see that discrimony line
between the two things it just it worked
it wasn't things all technological or
things on Magic there was things that
people who either had done something
very unworldly or who were very small to
understood a lot of the Alchemists as
well as the early scientists like Kevlar
and Newton they were very into mysticism
volcano uh and the Occult so um you got
to keep that in mind they didn't have
that drawing line there they were just
had something like demonic packed Magic
versus a deep understanding of the
Sciences such as astrology
um
and uh we you know it's kind of hard to
say what would we think would be kind of
like what would we see right now and say
that's magic and I'm not sure we would
be able to do much with that because we
are so spoiled on special effects you
know there's very little that we could
actually take in without senses I think
that would be like that's impossible so
that's hard to say at the same time
you're still gonna be shocked by any
technology that's even 20 or 30 years
ahead that you've not seen before
um that's a great point and nikron says
hi Isaac Arthur can you recommend a
video that details how the magnetic
bearings work on an orbital ring that's
a good question although I was just
thinking we've been binge watching
Jeopardy the last couple of weeks on
it's on streaming now at least and they
had one episode per season so we start
off like the original episode back from
like the year I was born and uh kind of
walked It Forward one season at a time
one episode of time and you could watch
people's Fashions change along with a
lot of questions you can go from your oh
yeah their hair yeah oh my gosh giant
change of hairspray usage and shorter
pad size and so on
um and that is another good example of
just you know you watch old television
one things I love about the classics is
just all these little differences in
technology because they're showing you
the most sophisticated things they have
it's like well that's it looks cheap and
boxy you mentioned so we finally got to
the 15th season yeah of Jeopardy 1998.
and it was 15 Seasons before they
actually were able to pan around and
view the audience the first 14 they only
showed the guests and the hosts and I
liked when the old LED lights on the one
went out too uh should come and see the
guy's score because it was like the old
book and the digital clock thing
did you forget the question
well the magnetic bearings one yeah
obviously I forgot the question do you
have any videos on that um we've not
done one on magnetic bearings I remember
with Phil Swan from the Atlantis project
we're talking about the tethered ring he
was uh discussing the bearings option
for that a little bit too because it's a
very similar platform there might be one
on they are discussing that that might
be something you want to do a video app
for the most part no I don't usually get
too much in the Weeds on em stuff so we
have a lot of Technology questions today
Albert Jackson welcome back to the show
Good afternoon Isaac and Sarah advances
in everyday technology such as bcis are
often discussed but what advances are in
store for scientific instruments such as
drills microscopes 3D printers Etc
that's a really good question especially
on 3D printers one um there are certain
limitations is what you can do with 3D
printing that there are odds with all
desire to have things like the Star Trek
replicator
um one of those is the sticky fingerless
problem another is just how do you make
something that's actually storable like
it's like this probe could be one atom
across good in a way I'll snap like
something that's exactly one atom across
but uh you'll get a lot of reuse on
these things and title machines are not
very durable and that's probably why
viruses are about as much yet with these
things
um you know compared to like a cell
which is much bigger
um I would say
hmm
in terms of digital instrumentation ones
you'll see that are a lot bigger will be
ones are built into your phone that
would be your horizontal things for
people having on them I would say and
everyone knows how to do this should
probably be an X billionaire if you get
walking uh a phone app that could scan
your foot size right your foot size and
shape right so that you could just go
ahead and put that into Amazon same as
you do like your car type or whatever it
is clothing size and knows your custom
foot size and instead of going back to
like the classic coblo it mails you uh
the shoe that fits you perfectly right
as opposed to your nine and a half wide
or whatever it happens to be that's my
shoe size
um and uh you know that's that's the
kind of things you see in someone's
phone the ability to scan yourself and
have your current exact food in your own
size right
um
you're making faces at me
okay sometimes my wife gives me curious
I don't know what that was something to
like speed up get the next question get
on with it and the other ones you're
speaking to quietly yeah I think that's
the cut off signal for stop answering
the question but I didn't get that one
but so but that was the kind of
instrumentation ones when your phone can
scan your temperature right uh then it
can also start warning you if you've got
like signs of flu you'll be able to tell
you right away that's the the tiny
little instrumentation things that make
big difference for the other ones that's
no harder to say you got options like
multi-tools that made a Memory Metal
they're controlling into a different
type of tool that would be an option for
something you might have in the garage
or even your person your Sonic
Screwdriver equivalents for those to be
pretty awesome but for scientific
instrumentation probably just weird or
stranger more expensive and more touchy
because it seems like every generation
of the high insights of equipment Falls
in that category
the next question is from Dara cloak and
thank you for the Super Chat do you
think the Neanderthals would eventually
have built radio telescopes if Homo
sapiens never emerged
um I mean the kind of the question there
is do you think that this piece of
technology or this like uh if Columbus
hadn't sailed the sea right or something
along those lines who would have done it
next and you say well maybe you would
have been funded out of England right
maybe it would come out of India or
China and you can play that kind of what
if game on that and the question you
always ask is is technology
inevitability for an intelligent species
at that level you know um if uh if you
open you know psyched into the sea
magically would one of the other
cultures have caught up and my
assumption is yes in terms of technology
I think that that's the way these things
tend to progress though it can be kind
of iffy like uh the Metro American
culture never got beyond the Neolithic
level in a lot of ways even though you
know in terms of like no metal slightly
Pottery but no Metals but at the same
time they picked up almost instantly so
that kind of tells you it's just is
there some sugar that sets that off I'd
have difficulty thinking that uh
neanderthals wouldn't have gotten at
some point but we don't have enough on
their brains right we don't know what
their brain structure like Mario humans
all have the same brains if all purposes
near those will be there slightly
different ones but all we have is a
skull so we don't really know the what
the layout was that well though it could
be something that wouldn't have picked
up be more than I would not think
chimpanzees would ever figure out how to
make a radio telescope but you know
where's that line and the answer is
until we find better Frozen ones
somewhere around so really look at the
brain structure and say that better
that's kind of an academic question
Isaac Bordeaux welcome back to the show
if string theory is proven correct do
you think it would open up any new
technologies that other theories of
everything would not allow
[Music]
um
yeah I think the thing is and I would
always emphasize this we got the idea of
the theory of everything in the sense of
being able to find all these unified
forces together right because we had
merged some other ones we found out that
electromagnetism uh was the unified
force of magnets of electricity you know
electricity in the electric force and
the EM Photon Force we found these all
the same thing and we also found out the
electro weak Force we call it is
combination of the weekend and and uh
electric electromagnetic forces and I
think they got people in the idea of
thinking that that must mean Beyond any
doubt that there would be a gravity
unifying force for the other forces
um and that may be what that may be the
case but that's kind of like just saying
well we found this was connected thus
this one's connected and therefore the
other one must be I think that's kind of
stretching things a bit gravity is the
first force be figured out and yet it's
the first one you're willing to call the
call wants a pseudo Force because it
really doesn't look anything like the
other forces it's the Oddball it's the
it's very very different and I don't see
there's any particular need to have to
have e to five it may well be so into
some good theories for that but you know
that's the way one of these theories can
kind of
um I want to say trick you because I
would probably be dishonest about the
process can let you sometimes for
yourself or get distracted into seeing a
set of solutions ignoring other ones
string theory has a lot of that too you
probably won't be beat up on string
theory on the show occasionally I try
not to do it too vocally and it's not
because I disagree with the theory it's
beautiful I love String Theory it has a
basic concept what bothers me is that
it's a very basic theory in terms of
evidence for it there's not a lot of
evidence for it and yet it's often
treated as though it was a proven thing
and I feel like that makes people not
look favorably on other areas it's
something that's that it's hypothetical
still should not be Advanced the point
that me folks think it's solid the way
that we have relativity
um great Theory still very much a theory
and the fact that we're very bad at
changing some Theory and a lot of
hypothesis there's mostly naming
conventions that are non-standard so
speaking of gravity Clash says how big
of a problem or challenge do you think
gravity will be
when it comes to colonizing other worlds
do you think that humans will ever be
able to adopt to Martian or lunar
gravity sure I mean in terms of like
adaptation to these things
um we have this problem as we know what
zero gravity does to the human body
because we had to test that in in at the
space station oh that's actually you
know we say it's microgravity but it's
actually normal Earth gravity minus a
few percent but you inside a centrifugal
forcing 20 around so it nullifies out
that's how orbit walks
um when we went to the moon we had
people under high acceleration and Xerox
you know just gravity uh for a few days
and then they were on the movement four
companies on low gravity and bring them
back so we don't really have any clue
what moon gravity does to biology right
we can make some guesses uh but we
haven't built anything like a moon
gravity space station look at that or
just you know done an actual Colony on
the moon uh mall is the same thing we
don't know it could be that one percent
of gravity is enough it keeps all the
plumbing flowing in the right direction
so to speak uh it means things
eventually settled out
um and you know because if you if you
have anything familiar with it for the
space station that place is smelly and
there's like junk floating through there
constantly ill yeah right because
nothing Falls so like if you got spittle
coming out of your mouth anything that
wouldn't stick cracker crumbs everything
is just big maybe it needs a vacuum at
one inch to like filter things oh it's
got lots of vacuum all around it
filtration filters of gravity makes it
so much better
um it's fine I tend to think that there
really is a big future for zero gravity
habitats because there's no real need to
have your habitation areas be zero
gravity with just a little bit of spin
wouldn't fix that problem now for the
low gravity we're going to find out by
direct experimentation what is safe for
humans and I suspect that that will be a
lot easier than the more important
question which is what is safe for
actual biology because there's a lot of
things like to be very touchy and it
doesn't matter for instance if most
organisms are good with it an ecosystem
is based on a careful alignment of all
sorts of components if one of those is
completely malfunctioning that ecosystem
does not work you put a different one in
there there's a lot of variety out there
will be new ones if you want to
replicate all ones though you're going
to probably have to be very close and I
would not actually be that surprised if
one percent of gravity worked but I also
wouldn't be surprised if even Venus is
89 gravity wasn't enough
Douglas Wilkinson says as a black hole
spins faster its Event Horizon contracts
why
um
okay so
I'm not actually sure if that's true
um well yeah I guess I'm not evaluating
them for truth I'm just reading their
statements sorry so the the more
acceleration something's under the more
more general relativity uh you know
contraction is going to have that regard
so I suppose that might be true on it at
the same time with thumping spinning
around the escape Velocity from its
surface it will would be lower so I
think that might be very dependent on
the circumstances an identical black
horse beneath fast or that was all
changed I think would probably name well
let's see that one academic if anybody
who is a better astronomer movie happens
to be online feel free to answer that
definitely is or isn't true
um you know there's a question that
comes up sometimes things like neutron
stars is uh if something has an event
horizon combined by like a neutron star
that's very close to Black Hole Mass
right very close to there if I pushed it
just a little bit faster so it's
relativistic Mass increased or because
this movie away from me you would have a
higher speed of light for you to
actually get away from it to reach my
eyeball would it appear as a black hole
and those kind of questions get to be at
very
difficult part to intuitively explain
yoyo general relativity that I'm
thinking that was it
how about Sean kill I almost said Steve
is a kid because he's a friend of mine
Sean Carroll I've had some very good
last answers on his blog about so you
probably know him he's a very popular
astrophysicist um but I know he had a
very good one on that topic now we saw
so Sean cable great guy to listen to for
this blog post on those
nulano says what's the most efficient
way to pack a large amount of living
area in a small volume would it be a
large shell world or something like a
topopolis coiled into a giant yarn ball
hmm
um in the end of the day your your
limitation is about how much heat you're
dumping out and that can be non-obvious
because it's not just treating like a
sphere at a big scale you almost have to
treat just like the surface of a big
sphere but you have crinkly surfaces or
materials that would reflect away that
frequency of radiation so you've got a
material that's reflective to the
frequency of light that uh well let's
say 12 microns the the frequency of
infrared light that humans and human
temperatures give off if you have a
material that was reflected to that
frequency you could get away packing
things a little bit tighter
um but only to a certain point because
most things aren't truly reflective uh
to a few bounces it gets absorbed so
basically a sphere is your real
limitation on that Azure density you
know you how dense this is going to
expand you got that sphere but you can
make a very good case for topopolis it
will depend a lot on the actual size the
topopolis has the cool thing that it is
buildable I would actually tend to guess
um
well it's it's like a rod model it isn't
something more of a hexagonal Cave
System around a star that might be
better now oh Bucky Habs see the mega
structurals compendium episode this
reminds me I was thinking about this as
sometime after November we should do the
Fermi Paradox compendium again uh I
should redo that one and we should have
because it'll be long or you're doing
some voice over on that what do you
think
we can discuss it
so for those who didn't see the biggest
structure companion when it got to be
almost two hours long I and it was made
on the script I I asked to say oh she'd
be willing to help me record things so
be alternate the entries and uh and save
my voice a little bit there and I think
I I if I redo the for me Paradise
compendium or the spaceship Drive
compendium or really big compendiums
just gets logo each time I redo them it
might be nice to have some alternating
voices
maybe we should ask people if they
actually liked having multiple narrators
I think I will say they said yes in that
though maybe because some of the folks
like well I could actually understand
this one's using a speech important but
well when you focus on it you do really
well oh but I'm not though which is most
times yeah
uh bargs uh Boris sardikman see I can't
pronounce it either
I apologize good night do you think
Humanity can develop a Gestalt
Consciousness or group mind in the
future if so how and why uh I I don't
think that Humanity has an entirety
would ever do that but I certainly think
certain groups might you do try various
options like Hive Minds deadlocked Minds
Etc
um though there's a lot of a difference
on there there's a character was it
belasolius call uh from the 40K setting
from the mechanicum Hulk majos
belasolius calm who's got a guest out of
a Consciousness and actually one of the
best books in that setting that really
rise about just you know setting books
um was the uh was it called the Great
walk uh by Guy Haley that features him
and that one actually has a treatment of
how Gestalt Consciousness emerged in
those people okay is I don't know if it
would make as much sense to you if you
don't know the 40K low on there but I
was kind of impressed with that book
um now the flip side that is how does
something like that emerge and and
there's so many different ways that it
could emerge because when we talk about
various unifications of existing brains
you could have people networking their
brains together you could have copies of
your own audio you can even have options
where like I decided I'm gonna get
married this person we're both going to
share our fourth grade memories onto
each other's brains
you know so that's probably part of that
force in the entire viewing one person
we can even have things like that you
could have someone who said I'm sending
out copies of myself to all these
distant stars and when they come back
together we're going to compress their
memories and feed them all into each
other's heads and you see something like
that in um House of sons by austere
Reynolds which is another phenomenal
book so
um
there's so many ways that could arise
but I don't really think you know I
don't want to have my brain mixed with
anybody else's per se and I spent the
most of us would not or would not want
anything too deep if we did so I don't
really ever seen that being something
Humanity did that seemed to be a big
craze out of like the 60s and 70s of the
uh the human hive mind but uh I really
don't think that that would be something
I mean it was all something coming out
of uh Star Trek well yeah well that's it
actually predated stuff they seem to be
really really into that yeah there's a
lot of folks who very much like that
that particular concept of the hive mind
I would not want that though uh but so I
would see that as something that
happened a lot but at a smaller scale
Brian Van Buren is there any reason to
build Bernal spheres instead of O'Neill
or McKendree cylinders happy belated
birthday yeah I'd say I honestly no I I
the bottom sphere was really popular
because it's kind of the original and
for those of you know what we call them
your cylinder I also call an island
three was uh O'Neill's third design he
done the original Bono Sphere for like
the 30s that uh banana would all come
with and then he did uh the second
slightly larger form he's like let's try
a cylinder version of an African Island
three in the third design
um spheres aren't horrible for that
purpose they were the only the idea
being that a sphere is kind of your most
compact thing
um for surface area and cost but
um it doesn't give you you know even
gravity across the surface and that
seems like a cool option I could
certainly see a lot of spheres being
used but I don't see that as the
Mainstay and um I think especially given
that spaceships do better when they are
um a lot longer than they are all you
know wide and tall uh just because they
hit less debris that definitely fave was
a cylinder setup and since you really
would want your space station to be able
to move and have uniform gravity I think
that you would see that a lot more than
the sphere
divide by zero get cake says if your own
personal Starship with somebody or
somehow faster than light travel
landed in your yard
where would you go first
uh or one other note on that one
thinking about that if you really want
that lower gravity you just put the
circular cap on the end of a uh a
cylinder here along cylinder with two
circular caps and so that would be the
equivalent of a bonosphere why not give
you more uniform gravity for most of it
but then the lower gravity too where
would I take an FTL spaceship if I could
do it
um well first I probably want to look I
mean from a strictly logical perspective
I want to find out where the thing was
manufactured at and then take the ship
there to see what other cool technology
they had but
um let's see where would I go if I could
just check out any place at all
who would be nice if for all these
different things you're being invited to
if you could just get there like this
instead of having to spend hours flying
wouldn't it that's true but I mean you
know I mean I don't know that I need to
get there in less than an instant
because I mean life gets there and what
like a tenth of a second or something
like that so maybe not an instant yeah
but maybe a half an hour instead of five
hours even traveling around the earth at
like a a thousandth of light speed would
be pretty impressive
um I don't know I would be very tempted
just because I have a lot of things in
my head that moment to go check out the
Mordor planes of Pluto oh sorry Ivan
Sharon uh but
um that's what I think that really comes
to mind right now I would love to just
kind of check out a lot of things
actually uh Christian trafficker you can
usually see us work on our show he did a
nice long sequence of like almost the of
the Landscapes with so many different
planets uh you can find just Google
Christian Taft called t-a-v-e-c-a-r and
um
those are places I would love to visit
but I wouldn't really want to stay and
that's kind of what comes to my FTL
travel
so the next question here is from scurvy
Sam is dark matter the interaction of
expansion on matter and time thus
creating dark gravity we need you to
repeat that because I kind of got lost
on the scurvy name
Kirby Sam says is dark matter the
interaction of expansion on matter and
time
creating dark gravity question mark
since we don't actually know what dark
matter is I can't just say things like
no but there is no reason to think
there's any connection between dark
matter and uh Dark Energy it's three
years from dope in physics as kind of a
in the same way like people say I I
would love to see what the x18 could do
it's like well I don't find this thing
out there and say well X is what we call
it when it's a prototype we take that
off when it's done and say what's the X
blah I have to do the X Plus well one of
those is a fighter jet and the other is
a printer
they have nothing in common besides the
fact they have the X there and that's
kind of dog means that same thing
unknown
um now in so far as there's a ton of
dark matter there's a ton of dark energy
compared to normal matter and energy
um that's that is something they have in
common as is the mystery but there's no
reason to think they really have
anything else going on so check out our
episode Dark Matter Technologies uh
Black Horse and dark matter or dark
matter or dark energy or dark flow uh
for more description of that topic as
you can see Isaac has devoted a lot of
time to making episodes on this topic
Marcus Fabrice says hi Artemis third is
slated to land near Shackleton Crater
where traces of water and ice were
discovered to what extent do you think
the prospect of lunar water or fuel is
guiding today's space programs
um I mean for the purpose of getting
industry on the moon it's a really big
one to know what our access to water is
because water is such an easy thing to
make fuel out of uh you know if you got
electricity compared to you know the
entire smoking operations you might need
to do an aluminum base Fuel and oxygen
aluminum one
um hydrogen's great one too and of
course very easy to liberate from a
model
so in many ways what we're most
interested in on the moon right now is
where can we find water at and where can
we find indecent abundant Spirit of land
and I said well I don't think we want to
be using you know as in Robert Hyland's
uh book uh when the moon was being mined
out follow its water to send back to
Earth for some reason
um you know we want to be doing Mainstay
production of Rocket Fuel without water
from the moon for very long but there's
a big difference between the early
exploration period and and uh and you
know later mass production and if we can
find a place that's got of you know few
kilotons of ice nearby that could fuel
our efforts to get tomorrows really
really well and to build up the space
industry
Michael NS says what would we need to do
in order to protect the process of the
local group of galaxies merging and also
expanding it to include as many other
galaxies as possible
okay so the idea there is that our own
Galaxy which is you know accountable
um there's well Way Way Back in the
early days near the dawn of time there
were probably a thousand or so local
Galaxy in our cluster that's you know
with us right here uh and those
abortioned about 30 of them some of
which are really big like us Andromeda
and so which are still kind of small and
so much kind of hazely into them they're
all getting smushed together and think
of that as the primary galaxies that the
most the universe's time is going to
consist of
um I suppose all the galaxies at least
current you know we live in there has
like conglomerated ones uh like the
Milky Way is like 50 of them last I
checked out was the countless 50
galaxies that we eaten
um and uh everything that's not in that
gravitational pulled cluster yeah you
know the stuff that's expanding out and
it's never going to reach each other so
most of the universes tied together was
going to be these little collaborated
galaxies or maybe you know 10 trillion
stars that kind of Zone uh surrounded by
vast empty nothing just no yo
superclusters get ripped involved and
the question is what can we do to make
sure that those galaxies though maybe
just a little bit past us you know in
terms of what would stay there naturally
come together or come together sooner or
you know if they're on that cusp how do
we get them back here and we discussed
that in detail in the fleet of Stars
episode I would say you could probably
ramp up the nasty coin 30 you know
Galaxy Chunk we have here to probably
close to a million
um in terms of just using classic
Chicago thrusters and a few of the
upgraded versions we discussed they are
like the Kaplan first one
Reverend RV says do you think the
Cambrian explosion is a great filter it
is said that intelligent life developed
early on Earth do you think it's a
filter at all would another perfect
world need a Cambrian explosion
you know this is a hard one to answer
because uh my usual bed is that your
chaotic cells is probably the one that's
one that John Michael godier and I both
share as we tend to think the the big
one for life on Earth with your chaotic
cells but you can point you off a lot of
them and here is the issue we know so
little about the actual composition of
the planet back in that era it is is a
big question Wilk we know way more than
we used to it's amazing what bits of
inflation we've extracted but it's so
hard for us to actually look at what
that process was within the real
certainty we look at something and say
well based on what we know it looks like
the eyeball evolved 20 different times
or 27 different times that we know of
and save for multicellularity and
probably more than that if those are
just the examples we found real fossils
of uh or you know fossil lines on such
being the case we could conclude that
those are probably not great filters or
even filters are any real kind with the
caveat that there could be uh factors
Outboards that made such a thing
unlikely to develop once and you know
one sources 40 times if once the
condition is right you can do it easily
so we can't rule them out completely but
they're not good filters
um there can be an explosion sometimes
seems like an almost inevitable result
kind of same with like the oxygen
situation but until we really know you
know when auction went from being a
waste product to something we breathe as
well as being a waste product and carbon
dioxide behind the waste spot uh until
we know more about those compositions
until we know more about what plants
look like in the early phase not just
Earth but other planets of the
atmosphere is on them it's so hard to
really talk for something about what
those early filters might have been on
live so it's just hard to say I think
they're a good candidate for one though
Jamie Russell Christian Middle Earth
you a Super Chat of two dollars and they
want you to make a James Webb Telescope
prediction discovery
oh that's a tricky one
um
I think it's going to discover an awful
lot of earth-sized planets that are not
currently able to be seen by other stuff
that's if you want to believe the
temperatures will be right let me phrase
that I think we'll be able to detect a
lot more stuff that's in the hap also
range
um and that's uh that's probably the big
one to be looking at though obviously
there's so much that you can do with
that but it's really more the frequency
range that's looking at and it's it's a
good Planet Hunter all right
we had another Super Chat here as well
from
James
hyi thank you for your 20 donation just
wanted to say thanks to you and all the
people working behind the scenes to make
this incredible show for us all you're
all the best and thank you to the
orioneer and cindery for feeding us
questions today and helping with the
moderation of the channel so she's one
of them City right now is in the area by
the hurricane at the Atlantic so thank
you very much for showing up yeah stay
safe last question before the break here
is going to be from modern solutions
hello Isaac using your background in
physics and science communication how
long would you go about working towards
a Globe spanning towards having Globe
spanning electricity before 2040. oh
let me talk about global spending
electricity is can you find an easy easy
way both economically and politically to
uh to build you know that those kind of
big super connecting trunk lines or even
not as a super duty ones because that's
depending a lot of the materials that
would be the ideal one you get a nice
mass-produced super ductile you have the
ability to do that a lot more profitably
um but in terms of actual Network I mean
we already kind of do have a global
energy Network it's just
uh
it could use Improvement so but I think
that that the breed that I would go
about that is is just kind of be pushing
that constant idea of energy
diversification solo is making progress
it is so close to being that Tipping
Point Energy that's got actually lower
energy gas
um but at the same time even then it's
nice to have that diversity of energy so
I think I've made it pretty clear I'm a
big fan of of solo of nuclear and of
hydro when you can use it but I don't
think any of the power type should be
discarded you know there are times when
geothermal is just perfect for the job
and until we get much better as there
are circumstances where it's very nice
to have hydrocarbons you know they're
hydrocarbon should be in their lab
they're all typically carbon neutral you
know we'll see how that stuff emerges as
the economic shift but uh it's time for
us to go to um it's when we shouldn't
break we'll see in about three or four
minutes
so you might have noticed that our live
stream usually has a schedule of recent
in upcoming episodes flipping around
while I'm talking and one of those was
on our upcoming episode on colonizing
planetary rings and was partially
inspired by the illustration Ron Miller
did of
j1407b for NASA that a lot of folks
refer to as the super Saturn because
they are so enormous compared to even
Saturn's and men's rings I'm guessing
it's a topic of the interests our
audience and supposed to comparing those
two planets
j1407b and Saturn was our most popular
audience posted topic on our Reddit
Forum last month if you didn't know sfia
has dedicated forms on most of the major
platforms and our Facebook Reddit and
Discord groups are the largest each with
thousands of members so if we don't get
a chance to get to your question today
those are great places to ask questions
and talk with folks about these topics
we discuss on the show I'm often there
are those forms myself too but it varies
on how busy or crazy life is we always
link the forums in the episode
descriptions to make them easier to find
and that's one thing I love about social
media it helps you find the 8 000 other
people who share your deep interest in
an Arcane topic when a population of 8
billion that's only 1 million people
incidentally joining last month's live
stream the question came up about
special and general relativity and how
much time slows spaceships down or
speeds them up as they leave all gravity
well we had a follow-up question on that
in the comments section afterwards
asking about the GPS devices
specifically they had heard that we
adjust the time on those but they
weren't sure if that was our special
relativity or general relativity thing
that we had adjust for the answer is
both gravity slows time and things
moving fast have slowed time too and
it's the net potential energy needed to
escape an object's gravity that controls
the time dilation so in the center of
Earth time runs slower even though the
force of gravity there is zero as
everything around you pulls equally in
all directions it runs slowest in the
center of our sun and as an example
folks looking to predict Supernova will
need to factor in that slower time at
the core of a star in terms of fusion
rates as well as the effect of being
closer or further from the galactic more
where time runs slower yet very very
Loosely you can calculate how much time
is dilated by Gravity by knowing your
escape velocity from that object and
plugging into normal special relatively
the lens equation as your velocity that
will give you a good guess for which is
strong or in effect on a GPS satellite
its speed or Earth's gravity and
unsurprisingly since GPS satellites are
in pretty high orbits three times
further from Earth's surface than that
surfaces from a plant Center the effect
of gravity is smaller and time runs
faster there and the satellite moves
quickly but the higher you orbit the
slower you need to move to keep it so
that special relativity factor is
diminished by lower speed as a result at
that height the weaker gravity makes
just under 46 microseconds extra pass
there in a day than on Earth while the
speed of the satellite knocks off just
over seven microseconds a day and the
net is the GPS satellite clock will be
about 38 microseconds ahead each day
compared to Earth or an extra day every
6 million years tiny but big enough
we've measured it and it is as predicted
for the proving Einstein's theories and
you need to account for it in
experiments so great question during
last month's show and afterward and with
that said and with that said let's get
back to Today's Show and more of your
questions
it's probably yeah we've got getting
pinned back up with cameras and
microphones
laughs
it's always hard to remember how I
recording admissions for but they are
exactly the length that's high necessary
to run and get me coffee basically
my wife is eating candy at the moment
but sweetie we always I'll be talking
out loud to myself while she finishes
chewing
[Laughter]
another Fair
[Applause]
which one did you think it was uh
Ashtabula and they had an old-fashioned
candy shop and I was able to get it in
this little bag now I've ate it all
for the ones that was it Maple the maple
candy we went down to uh Maple cotton
candy Maple that was from the great
Geauga County Fair Richard's Maple
parrots because they were celebrating
their 200th anniversary
all right congratulations on the 20th
anniversary of your fail
doggo says hey Isaac what are your
thoughts on concentrated solar power it
seems underrated compared to PV solar
the Technologies for CSP seem more
accessible and they don't require Trace
medals like PV uh and well trippy toward
you don't really need Trace medals for
PVE either that's just that a lot of the
ones we use for all better without
having to use those
um the thing is and I like concentrate
solo I do not like concentrate solar
power for the purpose of having them on
like my house for instance because we
were talking about the future of soil
power what happens when you build like a
solo Thermal Tower well you tend to get
birds getting burned up by a thing they
just you know they do fly through the
beam as it were so you can either do
that relatively minimally which is
certainly an option or you can try to
find the area where the boards aren't
going to be flying or so forth oh that
doesn't mean you can find other options
like oh one of the problems we have with
berries and if you do the guys know we
uh start a blueberry farm not too high
so we got married up here but
um you have to worry about bullets
coming in mass and of course you can't
shoot them for one thing there's
thousands of them uh for another thing
I'm pretty sure the EPA would show up on
that one but um you know you want some
way to tour them from your berries and
uh so there might be that some
technology like that would fix that
problem because usually we're talking
about concentrated solar or solar
thermal the issue here on Earth anyway
is that feel of it killing off local
life or it's being dangerous so one
little fix like that might make that
something much more viable
smaller versions of that or home molten
salt reactor um
solids energy storage might work for
that too but we just keep it more
minimalistic however it works amazingly
well in space and especially on a place
like the moon where you can make a nice
thermally insulated container by
basically just elevating a couple feet
off the rest of the ground because
there's already a vacuum around it
Asher Griffiths actually has a question
that I really
uh think is insightful I'm digging into
he says hello we have sent a lot of
signals into space for aliens why do we
assume that aliens will be able to
translate it into the original message
wouldn't it be more likely to appear as
noise or other messages
um okay so one the Quant signals are
very compressed but what do we mean by
compression in when you're doing
compression algorithms what you
essentially do is try to take every copy
every pattern in that and remove the
pattern right they move into so you're
not having to repeat like I want to do
an image that has 5 000 blue dots and
has a very simplistic example of that
instead of writing these typical tone of
blue each time I would simply say each
of these positions uh was that shade of
blue one time instead having to repeat
it over again
um and that's an example of how you
would do a compression uh there's a lot
of other ways you do compression but
they all come down to basically anything
there's a repeating panel and all right
we will move it in place where somebody
says repeat pattern so a compressed
signal looks like noise you know ideally
you can press signal looks a lot like
noise now mind you you're never going to
actually have a compressed signal that
truly looks like noise if you know what
you're looking for things do stick out
of it you're not going to go for that
Ultra compression that would make it
look like it was totally random signal
right because you have problems telling
you it was you need some pattern in
there that's minimalistic
um that's the thing he Minds it would be
very hard to spot signals like that the
thing is we're not really looking for
those kind of signals because we're
looking for is people who would be
sending one to us in which case you
don't really do much compression now for
them being able to see ours uh here's
the we didn't compress our signals in
the past there was no digital
compression until we even had digital
stuff so all of our early signals many
of which were very loud because our
receivers were bad our radio stations
were few right loud loud megawatt
signals that were not compressed is
early and astronomy is history so they
have all that time to be watching as we
slowly switch over signal types to be
able to start telling what we're using
now for a signal now as to how they
would figure it out it's all about
quantity and repeating patterns that's
the whole key to it
while the languages that we can't
translate from the past is it because
they're mysterious and the human mind
has changed no it's because we only have
a few hundred walls scattered over
centuries and many different villages in
an era where dialects were changing
constantly and there was no dictionary
you can't translate a fragment of a
language like that but that's not
mystery right they say if you can't even
do that for the human mind how could we
do for an alien how many times would you
have to listen to a radio program before
you noticed that every day on that same
radio station somebody said
hey you start realizing wait a minute
they mean good morning they mean good
night it repeats the same time this
planet rotates every day the frequency
of that thing spikes up says pattern
recognition right how does an AI
understand these things and that's
exactly what things like ail very good
at so it's not that we never expect them
to like hold crack it like you do for
the crypto program in the back of the
paper you're thinking what's their AI
you'd be able to do what can their
computers do and that's all a frequency
issue and if you've got
hundreds of channels playing you know
content for a century all day every day
that's billions of words that's
trillions I think of it was you can run
the numbers yourself that's a big
database bit of crack they're still
going to mess things up though you have
to be like well you know human children
look like cats and dogs they're younger
and many people have claws I know
because they said so humans have claws
they that person got their claws into
somebody you know those euphemisms
they're gonna screw people up right but
they might be able to figure something
out you know but other ones that just
confuse them
sargas Sarge says Isaac do you think it
is inevitable that planetary colonies
like Mars would eventually desire or
even delcare independence from Earth
what I wore in space be fought over such
things no uh yes but no we always talk
about how one day Mars is going to be a
broken off colony from Earth well here's
the thing you probably are never going
to have a a moral splittle colony from
Earth gov right because there are 200
plus governments on this planet B which
are made from Federated governments and
whether it's like a separate Colony
owned by a corporation for the get-go or
it was funded by say the United States
or China what you have is a Morris
County that is Chinese a hundred miles
away on Mars from some one that's
American New York one that's Japanese
the other one that started by musk
Incorporated whichever all there
who are they about you from as a group
is the one that's upset with the US just
going to happen to convince its UK
neighbor that it should also Rebel from
the crown and that's unlikely happens
simultaneously plus and here's a big one
your neighbors or people you have the
most in common with
enough includes reasons why you dislike
each other
it's generally easier to go out to
people who are far away than you have
that much in common with
the only thing to keep in mind is we
show some quality of like 10 000 people
decided to be its own independent nation
that's certainly possible we have
countries that are that small but
um you know the United States has 300 I
don't even know how many 300 some
million people right now divided into 50
states uh and divided into something
like 3 000 counties uh and those are
individually divided into but we have 25
27 townships here in ashburlock Kelly
Each of which has their own various sub
levels of government but one of these
local townships of the thirty with the 3
000 counties most of them have over 100
000 people to be three steps below a
earth gov as a war then you got a
Township of ten thousand people right or
two thousand I think what we're in
that's because colonies we've seen these
shows that's a lot to be saying well you
know what that's enough people to have
our own justice system
you know so I think you would probably
see something like we are tired of being
part of the you know we're tired of
being a territory we want to be part of
a state so we're going to apply to be
part of the moral States or we're going
to apply to be part of Wyoming
or we're going to probably be part of
this County I think that's more where
you'd see these things happening at
hello Isaac
question
hello Isaac what would be the most
advanced computer prosecutor
intelligent life could possibly make
before reaching Universal limitations
would that be the Matryoshka brain or
something greater I feel what was that
second war they have passed you you said
it is written prosecutor but I wasn't
sure if that was what they did yeah that
can't be right
so go with most advanced computer all
right so we'll be the most important I
bet it would be or processor processor
okay as I said it's very important all
these things to get them in there
legibly sorry it was spelled but it was
a different word yeah
um so it was what was the last bit of
that Adventure match goes for pain but
uh would that
brain or would there be something else
that could be the most advancement's a
tricky one to discuss there because at
that point in time we were discussing
what's their level of technology and you
know the old yeah computer that took
over an entire ability and is obviously
not as advanced the ones were running
the whole real on right now there's
three computers in this room four
not including phones and tablets and
stuff there's like five computers in
this room
six computers in this room and they all
have more power the ex ad and this is
not that big of a room man let alone a
building like eniac was eniac by the way
was that first computer in World War II
that was electronic
um and uh so sizes or even power was not
that good an idea
um for advancement right as to how much
power you could have running it since
power presumably is is literally scaling
up on this a bit you could have one that
was being run on you know a
conglomeration of a galaxy so no
particular reason why you couldn't do
that in which case you know that would
be
what basically UK for uh and if you're
curious what we came up with a key for
example watch this week's episode
because I finally got around to calling
something that maybe coming out this
Thursday I grab the aliens
another question here from CR Smith
thank you CR for your Super Chat five
dollars hey Isaac and Mrs Isaac love you
don't spit your coffee out across the
room husband that's not polite
hey Isaac and Mrs Isaac love your videos
my question is what are we to what if we
learn to build enforce facial Dimensions
inspired by the Dark Forest trilogy
the dark force Trilogy no Dark Forest
Trilogy okay um there is a dark horse
Trilogy too but that's that's it you're
still stuck on Mrs Isaac I know I still
am switch to spatial Dimensions here um
the dark force Trilogy about six and Lou
um but
um just miss pronounce his name too
um
so yeah I know I am stuck on that this
is Isaac thing I know it's happy right
across the desk for those who know when
you get married eastern states that you
see I Now Pronounce You you know Mr and
Mrs Isaac Hawthorne okays and if memory
Source he said mystery Mrs Isaac Fowler
authors
I don't remember but you'd have to go
back and watch the video
um so um I suppose that would stick in
your head more considering
it's my best man's pants will split open
and we try to keep it off the camera
you're announcing that on he kept it
concealed he was
going good of course today we had
someone here looking at a pool table for
sale and they called they said what is
Mr Fowler's name it happens fairly
regularly my wife is much more famous
than me locally so
um would you like the question again
absolutely
what if we learn to build in four
spatial Dimensions as inspired by the
Dark Forest Trilogy all right so if you
can build in four spatial Dimensions
you're not doing it in this universe I
wouldn't think but you could conceive we
have something like uh for those who
know G and D bag of hoarding for those
who know the more sci-fi it's what we
call it Hammer space uh off of a very
technical concept of Wiley Coyote
pulling a hammer out or rather the
ostrich or Roadrunner point the hammer
out to hit body Cody with out of nowhere
and you get some very interesting
options I think we looked at in the
wormholes episode way back but uh in a
case like that you might have you know
uh you open up the door to your
refrigerator and kind of like the Tardis
it's bigger on the inside and the
outside but
well that sounds cool as a concept that
it doesn't really work out very well in
a practical sense we don't dwell on it
much uh and uh there's also kind of a
difference between having a portal or
someplace you store something versus you
know something it's actually just four
dimensional when you open it up
um I don't think you could really do it
inside this space because it's kind of
like how do I build a three-dimensional
object on a piece of paper and I said
well you you could take the piece of
paper itself and fold it up into a
three-dimensional object but the
topology is still the same it's still
you know 3D uh 2D object so I don't
think that would really work out very
well but it would obviously be a huge
you'd probably be able to violate
conservation of energy within the very
least but I also be where I think it's
20 to Black Horse a lot because of
density would really kick up a lot very
quickly okay I think we've reached the
favorite part of the program at least
it's my favorite I hope it's everybody
else's we have five minutes left that
means we are going to try to jam as many
questions in as quick as possible and
you're going to give 10 to 15 second
answers in theory yes
so we have lordmon are you more in favor
of planetary colonization or orbital
colonies uh it's not really either or
but all the colonization which strikes
me as the majority because it's it's are
you in favor of cities or rural cabins
out in the middle of nowhere you have a
lot more people in the cities than rural
cabins
hey Isaac do you think you'll live to
see the point where advances in life
extension will outpace people's aging I
sure hope so if people ask what my
favorite technology I'd love to live to
see is and I was telling it's a radical
life extension technology uh since you
are the other ones yes I'd like to live
to be like 5 000 and you know and so
forth Horace the great thank you for
your ten dollar Super Chat what are your
thoughts on Bob odrick and Eric Lentz
version of physical warp technology
which instead of traveling the speed of
light you manipulate time dilation or
time capsules
I'm not familiar with enough to really
comment on it but usually with warp
drive it's always a question of how are
you doing that compression and if I was
negative energy or negative matter uh
you'll find me a mode of the stuff first
before we discuss how to really use it
hey Isaac are you planning to create any
new merchandise soon I'm looking for
some really cool sci-fi concept shirts
and I can't imagine anyone could get it
at least the concept part done better
uh we really do need to restart that I
start doing merchandise with the one
because it looked like the other side
was being horribly
misrepresented analyzed
um and so we that's why we stopped
putting those out there I I don't know
if they might even still we saw and
stuff all I know but uh I thought I'd be
starting something with brick from now
for those who know nebulous standards a
company that I'm kind of a co-owner kind
of I have a code online we have our own
team there that does a lot of stuff from
terms of merchandise and stuff as an
extra add-on for creators and uh it'd be
worn the design phase for that but I
kind of got distracted I don't know
whether that's actually sitting at so it
might be
that's a great suggestion thank you yes
thank you great suggestion we'll check
on that how do you think space
colonization will affect geopolitics and
the balance of power on Earth which
countries do you think will likely
benefit which would not and how would
they benefit I think everyone will
benefit but everyone also feels screwed
over and touchy because they're humans
so that's exactly how that will happen
whoever gets it the most will be pissed
off that I almost didn't actually invest
enough into it uh colleague the US
always feels like yogios is kind of
sheeping them out on how much they put
into space development everyone else is
going to be like you guys are stealing
all this stuff got developed so humans
being humans we will all benefit and we
will all feel like somebody screwed us
over Isaac Arthur what's your opinion of
David Pierce's ideas of wire heading and
Paradise engineering and How likely is
it that technology will result in a far
future Utopia uh a neural hackie in
general to me is not really a good way
to make people happy although it's
probably a good way to make them happy
essentially speaking but not really a a
healthy way to do that so
what is a pirate's favorite element
you got it great job
nulano do you believe that the Artemis
project is the right direction to take
Humanity into space
it's it's better than not doing it this
is one of those examples of you know
whether we go to Mars Force the moon
Force whatever it is a lot of times of
these things I just like to see us
making forward progress on them
thank you Merv Johnson for your 20 Super
Chat and thank you also Matt van
grizvenen sorry for the mispronunciation
thank you for your five dollar Super
Chat Isaac you're very creative you
cannot think of any way to cheat the
heat death of the universe
I didn't say that I can't prove there's
any good way to do it uh there's a lot
of ways you could potentially uh cheat
it I thought we looked at a couple of
those the uh in the uh postponing the
heat death of a Universe episode or
maybe it was eye on stars but proving
it's a little story you know Isaac
Arthur NASA says Saturn's moon Titan is
covered in oceans of oil more than
exists on
Sun it didn't come from fossil fuels
should we reassess if all of our oil is
I believe that's from fossil fuels well
on the one hand we tend to have a
somewhat naive notion of how fossil
fuels are formed in the first place so
that dead dinosaurs
mostly but uh methane is the most common
hydrocarbon on this planet you can bond
that as phosphere obviously if you would
like to leave it that way uh there's be
things insanely common in the universe
right
um and you can bought it just fine but
um it's not necessarily the same thing
as some of the other ones there's a lot
of formative processes that control that
you can make these things in a lavatory
it's just that it takes more energy to
make them that you get out of burning
them so for instance if you really want
to have a gas money engine you can use
nuclear power to create gasoline you
know I think think I need a 15 second
timer this could be a lot more fun with
something going Buzz I guess ask a
geologist they'll give you a better
answer on the formative faucet how it
worked but there's gonna be a lot of
question marks on something like that
too Jason solo thank you for your two
dollar Super Chat thanks on RNA forming
in both basaltic glass
say that again thoughts on RNA forming
in basaltic glass uh if that actually is
something that happened please send me
the link that sounds cool
what do you think about cars and roads
on the moon and asteroids would they
exist in anything more than a limited
capacity would personal cars exist or
car space elevators
um I don't I I think whenever you have
like a tram system you wouldn't have
personalized ones that's that's too much
of a traffic issue you know if you're
sharing a line like that although that
maybe maybe not
um
but Carlos yeah I think you'd have it'd
be spaceships that uh I believe the
difference there is
so easy to build a spaceship on a low
gravity place it's just keep you think
you know tight so yeah well I think more
like a personal play but actually walk
yeah
though except inside a habitat
are you ready yes when do you think
we'll reach the level of nanotechnology
described by Eric Drexler in engines of
creation and the diamond age by Neil
Stevens such as diamondoids and other
compilers
um I think and again because directional
discussed quite a few uh levels of that
so to speak um great book but uh I think
the the key thing on that is
we don't know if that's gonna be
something we get like next year because
I was like I found that one little
clever thing to turn that key and now
within a couple years is maxed out we
got the super technology or one of those
things that we just never really get to
because it's not that practical
um I expect now technology to be a big
factor in our life uh
probably in the next decade if it's
already in there but to the point that
we often see it in sci-fi
um long or maybe even never to some of
those degrees but longer
we have a super chat from pewter hacker
thank you for your 20 donation with spin
launch recently receiving 71 million in
investment and with new architectures
such as the tethered ring do you think
that active structures are poised to
gain some traction
I hope so
um you know I think
um neither was questioned whether I'd do
some more episodes on active sport
launch systems because there's a few
other ones life's been launched they'll
gain momentum
um one of the cool things about uh space
X's that got us really doing well with
reusable rockets and flights down one
downside of it is kind of pushed away
from some of these support structures
like the uh you know like tevo swing
like like Corporal rings so I'd love to
see more on there because I don't think
the answer lies with one or the other
but uh anything that gets funny to those
is great I can't tell you which one's
gonna turn out to be more economically
sound in the mid to them now
and besides rotating habitats what do
you think will be the most common Mega
structure
giant space gun
the power collectors but a giant space
gun sounds cool
I think that's actually uh the end of
the questions that I have posed here and
we are at a little after five o'clock so
that was a longer than five minute
lightning round but I'm going to say
some of those questions went longer than
15 seconds probably all right so I think
what we're doing now we are going to go
get some foam board for the bees to
winterize them we are going to work on
winterizing the bees and hopefully that
will go smoothly and no stings yes said
and then to keep them moisture approved
because bees don't like that if we keep
bees
so we're gonna go ahead and sign off
there and uh think giant space guns that
shoot bees
that's a scary thought I would think
more like a space elevator with the bees
going up it in fact all right don't
click off I had a thought so I went to a
bee Festival last Saturday and they
actually had a b space elevator made out
of clear see-through like Gutter and
they had the bees inside the
building and they go up the b space
elevator and fly out the top so they
don't sting people that seems like a
kind of neat idea now if they can make
one that's ten thousand kilometers high
that would even cool
episode gravity aliens and in the
meantime feel free to check out any of
our many many other episodes which is
now like 350 300 whatever many hundreds
of episodes and remember
what's the answer to life the universe
and everything 42. happy birthday to you
so that will wrap us up for the day I
want to thank everyone for joining us
and again if we didn't get you a
question feel free to post us a comment
below and I'll try to get to it this
evening also you can continue the
conversation at any of the forums on
Facebook Reddit Discord or our website
isagartho.net
thanks for joining us and we'll see you
Thursday
