good afternoon everybody and welcome to
today's live stream we'll be taking
questions pretty much right from the top
and trying to get to as many as pass for
today so as these come in go ahead I'll
put them in the chat window and we'll
get started as soon as those pop in
while we're waiting for those to show up
we do have a slightly modified schedule
we still have our normal weekly episodes
for April but we are going to have the
forced clock tech bonus episode this
upcoming Sunday not this Sunday but the
next one so that we've got was it
technical primitivism this upcoming
Thursday and then we'll have clock tech
on anti-gravity that Sunday and then
we'll go back to the normal schedule
which we future pets on April 11th and
then it's shine robots on April 18 type
still gameplay guys talk to that episode
all right so make sure it's talking your
questions in and as a heads up when
you're putting the questions in the more
concise those all the more well spelled
they are the more likely I ought to get
to me because we don't they have time to
recap you all and talk with them as we
go all right so we always have this bit
of a lag while people put questions and
what else is going on for the week while
waiting let's see ah question
Celina asks you said in one of your
episodes that data has no mass can you
talk about that more um you know with a
lot of abstract concepts we would say
whether or not that wheel or not doesn't
necessary mean they have mass even it
sounds like a photon doesn't have mass
but arguably has a vast energy and could
be viewed as having relativistic mass I
don't think an abstract concept really
be very likely to have mass but at the
same time you could have a minimum
amount you could have to store it on for
instance if your minimum is an atom you
really couldn't go beneath that amount
of mass and I usually tend to assume you
couldn't store on less than that though
there are some theories that around like
the edge of a black hole the minimum
surface area the
the event horizon a plank area which is
many trillions of trillions of trillions
of times smaller than an atom
that could be your minimum bit size but
that doesn't necessarily imply any mass
but there should be an energy associated
these things that probably would be
something of the Planck scale Rabi Rose
ass are all particles created in the Big
Bang entangled with each other no I
can't think the reason why they would be
I mean I began an interesting theory if
that was the case but if we're talking
about entanglement that's a little bit
more complex than things can become
disentangle - so there be no reason
think they were one tango to begin with
and they certainly wouldn't be now
interesting concept though if you could
set something like that off but
entangling large particles and we're
going to be talking about quantum
computers with well it's not episode
actually it's with CBS news sometime the
next month or so with those in general
Iowan series whether it be in tangora
next question is why can't we just take
mrs. atmosphere and move it tomorrow's
there's no reason why we couldn't accept
it actually is a lot more atmosphere
than then your need for Venus I'm
showing about the use composition by
believe Venus is like 97% carbon dioxide
3% nitrogen the side of those backboards
and of course there's already plenty of
carbon dioxide on mars relatively
speaking but it is short of nitrogen so
places like Titan and Venus are really
very attract to us for getting more
nitrogen to Mars but there's way more
ale on Venus than there was on Earth and
Mars are smaller than also you really
wouldn't want to transfer all that
anyway as to whether or not you can do
that we you know we did talk about that
in colonizing Venus I think as well as
for Titan about how they might export
atmosphere so you suddenly could do it
but I wouldn't want to take all of it
Adam asks how likely is it that a
neutron star can be found in our
direction and how close would it need to
be to ruin our solar system hmm you
would see somebody shooting a neutron
star a long time off and that is moving
us tall even if it's moving at a
you know 10% of Lightspeed which require
huge amounts of energy like the
equivalent entire Sun being expended for
that you are not going to make that a
stealthy approach people would see it
coming centuries off as to how fast it
would need to be going or how close we
need to be going to get to us and cause
problems any anything that gets into the
outer solar system and I don't you mean
like JUCO or Saturday or more like you
know Kuiper belt or cloud it's gonna
cause some perturbation but it's when it
crosses the orbit of a planet that cause
the most problem so one that basically
goes across where authors or being at
inside that range is going to top of us
a lot more than one that's going just
outside that if it got that close we'd
have a bad day and probably our last day
if it was just passing by the Atmos
system it depends on what you mean by
outer system in all probability that we
have actually had some very close
friends with stahls as these things go
over the course force history next
question yt math asks what is the
possibility of using ice to shield
interplanetary exoplanetary from micro
meteorites and hard radiation nine
meters of water reduces radiation to sea
level amounts not too clear if you mean
that by that but water will block and I
assume you mean nine levels and I meters
water would acts a very good shield you
can slowly use ice to shield yourself
and I think that's been suggest army
occasions not because it's a really
great radiation burial but because it's
really cheap it's everywhere and water
is one of those things we like to bring
with us for these trips not so much to
drink but to make a lot of silly use of
fuel that sort of thing
hydrants are pretty good one for
shielding and oxygen is handy have
around but the thing is when we talk
about a natural object and this same
comes up when people say things like
well why don't we hollow out an asteroid
and use that as a spaceship and for that
matter we were talking about with planet
ships a few days ago
when you try and make a relatively small
ship you really don't want to use
anything natural even the case of a
plant ship that's really more about
making a ship big enough to have enough
gravity for its own ale and things like
that in so it's not leaking mass over
millions and millions of years of travel
I almost ever want to use some natural
path when you want to ice a good shield
but and so would be tanks full of
hydrogen condense hydrogen that will
also made out of lead or uranium or any
number of other materials that are good
cross-sections for radiation but you
certainly could use eyes for that form
hmm flow highs glass have you ever done
anything about time travel I'm new here
we have a really old episode on time
travel I think was the second episode of
the FTL series the FTL series was the
third or fourth series we did on the
channel we did four episodes that and
I've always wondered we do those so that
was only season 2 and they'll much
faster oh very hard to understand and I
don't really like to redo episodes
unless we're expanding on the concept a
bit but we did do an episode on time
travel and tachyons only February 2016
I'm on site and I don't really recommend
it to people because it's not high
quality but it does cover the topic and
of course we probably will we do almost
every episode from season 1 or 2 if we
haven't already redone them at some
point the next couple of years
usually I to expand on a topic then just
repeat at them
Steven ass is it possible to ignite
Jupiter into a second star like in that
stock in episode actually don't remember
a Stargate observer they did that but I
mean there's that classic thing from
2010 yeah 2010 the sequel to 2001 a
Space Odyssey where they do ignite the
Sun the Jupiter that is into a new Sun
you could presumably make something
artificial that was the mass of Jupiter
and actually get to Bowen but you're not
gonna get that from a natural fusion
process she's not massive enough for
that it needs to be way more massive
it's not just a little bit and I think I
was reading again the saga of seven Suns
it's a book by Kevin J Anderson series
by Kevin J Anderson they start off with
something called the quickest Taurus
where they talk about dumping a neutron
star into a gas giant to ignite it and
so that that will walk of course she
would would cause a supernova but maybe
just a Nova
but the issue is that that's neutron
star with that they're acting as though
it's my audition is going down masse
that that jovian by a factor around 100
it's not really ideal for that sort of
purpose you might just basically just
adding gas at that point in time to a
neutron star or not not making a Jovian
actually Tony wasan itself alright
hydrogen sign I was one missed one
Zachary Wilson ass I've seen a lot of
headlines about the zoo hypothesis as an
explanation as to why we haven't met
aliens oh we have any new information on
this subject that explains these recent
headlines I'm not gonna make any
negative commentary about typically
speaking in an article on the forum a
paradox any time so he makes something
interesting and implies it might be
solved um I don't know that's case here
I think I did see a couple extra
articles on zoo hypothesis recently
though generally speaking these don't
really deal with the issue any sort of
new ways just some new piece of physical
evidence that pertains the topic it just
doesn't alter the equation at all you
can find a million natural looking
objects they're a bit anomalous unless
you can find an actual pattern indicate
the artificial or doesn't really talk to
you about it the zoo hypothesis only we
were actually done episode specifically
on the zoo hypothesis but smug aliens
was coming from the other direction
while that's not really a good approach
and I've just I've never seen anything
that makes a viable approach if I was
specifically trying to quarantine a
civilisation that way I would globe them
up and probably move their home planet
back to my home system where I could
protect it and just fake the sky or do
something else like digitize them put
them in a virtual world that looks
exactly like they owes if that was my
approach for quarantine them I think
that's a bit of an ethical nightmare but
it's a lot more effective than just
trying to you know leave a planet
untouched for millions of years the
hydrogen cyanide I asked do you support
colonizing Mars or building O'Neil
cylinders since Martian gravity could
render the sense of colonist unable live
on earth I would be surprised what
actually did I mean when you're talking
about a genetic changed people that's
that takes a long time and you know
genetic engineering is kind of being
classic evolution to an end
now even for folks who would avoid using
that themselves you're not really you're
not really removing them from that
evolutionary pour somehow because
they're not doing themselves every was
around the mister doing it all the
things they were spying too as effects
or still being affected by all that
genetic engineering technology nearby
bit of a tangent there thing is that you
wouldn't really have people mutating
into somebody that couldn't live under
oath gravity without thousands of years
of you know slow mutation probably many
tens of thousands of years as to livia
mouse itself it might turn out that we
don't actually need any artificial
gravity to walk they are that is by the
episodes we're going to be looking at
obviously again in a week and a half so
a week for now and I really don't think
that you would want to do that unless
you were sure that was enough gravity
for ecosystem it's not only about people
I'd be like the ecosystem they around
your tail forming a planet cuz you bar
make a second planet not a place for
people specifically to live usually go
specifically swim live build a noni or
so on or and I do think that would be
where the majority of people would live
assuming they were talking about
biological people all right thank you
chinchilla Dave doc Marshall asks if you
were to ship things like atmosphere or
liquid which would be easier for
transport manned unmanned or minimally
manned for mass transport you're doing
anything really slow because you don't
want to waste energy so you could put
people on board they always like a probe
you might want a really high
acceleration right um and so I don't see
why you wouldn't have those manned if
you needed them the question is do you
need them and the answer usually around
this is it just depends on whether or
not there's something there that we
require intelligence to fix because at
that point you have a man ship doesn't
matter the people or not in the classic
human sense if you put an AI on pour
something like you know commander data
from Star Trek that's now a man vessel
by any halfway scene definition we can
use for the tone so if there's an
intelligence on the oh it's manned and
if there's not then because you don't
need that and it's unmanned and with
Freddie no just large twice or mass you
probably don't need it but I think you'd
probably tend to do it anyway
just cuz it helps you coming down some
of your bases Strom Lin ass hey Isaac
can you and John Michael go da make a
duo episode I'm sure John I would do
something again at some point it's only
been I think four or five months since
last time we did a collab though so I
don't know what his schedule looks like
but John's always a lot of fun to walk
with um the next collab we have up and
it's not actually for set date yet we'll
be following at looking at Boltzmann
brains probably not for at least a month
and a half a little bit longer and that
will be with Jayde from up and Adam so
but I'm you know if John's around whilst
you into the video I'm always glad to
work with him on these things he's just
a lot of fun to work with Jase ass I
know you have generally have a positive
outlook on the future but what
futuristic technologies do you view as
the most likely to turn dystopian in
human hands
I definitely think of myself as having a
positive attitude on the future more of
a sort of pragmatic realism it's just
that you know if you look at the 20th
century or the 24th century life is just
so much better than this kind of
progress of knowledge not just
technology but knowledge and you know
this increasingly long lifespans and
greater prosperity allows people a lot
more time to think about issues and not
really have to deal with desperate
situations and rationalize why I was
okay to do X Y or Z and that I guess you
can call that a positive outlook and I
think that as we acquire more knowledge
and prosperity and technology we all
have a more happier life but that's only
isn't dystopian as to what technologies
could Torn dystopian um anything having
to do with mind control obviously
brainwashing anything that just makes
people really happy there was um one of
the audience I can't what he was what
his feeling was upside my head actually
but he's his thesis he was working on
was a for me we're not his thesis a
paper with no camera this visor was a
phony paradox solution I do with my
board hacky I want to talk about that
too much but reward hacking as a concept
is where you you know would trigger
someone just be happy and there's a kind
of this loose concept that if I make
somebody happy or by just pushing a
button on them that that means they were
always gonna for that over walking
towards something that would
make them happier or make them laugh you
can just push a button instead of
actually having to do things that were
to create that reward
that's what Ward hacking and you tend to
expect a lot of people would tend to use
that and same way people use drugs so
that no your forked drugs anyway um so
you might end up having a civilization
that was doing that what we call a post
discontent society on the channel to
distinguish it from a post-scarcity
society one way of people might be
living in absolute misery and dejection
but they're very happy um Speedy's of
love it
sunrise bedtime I asked would we do
another episode on a non-sexual show
probably down the road I generally try
to avoid collabing or walking with folks
too often less it lose the you know
freshness of walking with them but I did
enjoy doing them we've been on day or
twice now and and they are they really
fun to chat with um question from
cuddlers 99 would Kessler syndrome be a
solution to the Fermi paradox that's
Bentley rewarded um no no never would
that be a one-foot there are ways to
clear since uh just clear debris away
from a planet and it does naturally go
away on its own and we did talk about an
all-pro infrastructure on one say
episode 12 of the Upward Bound series
and that gives goes more to details
about that but I would never consider
that to be a at least 4k one
civilization Kessler syndrome shouldn't
be a threat but more of an issue for k2
civilization some regards though Jeremy
Scott asks do you think the u.s. is
capable of handing the economic
transition to full automation without
riots rebellions and massive poverty for
at least a period of time and I would
say I'm not really sure on how to answer
a question like that civilizations have
to deal with technological disruption on
a regular basis if they don't then that
indicates there's a flow weakness in
that civilization I am American I'd like
to think that we usually could I think
most civilizations could handle that
does not mean they handle it well and
does not mean that either they handle it
well it doesn't cause problems but you
know forgetting about which country
one's fun for the moment people all
people we're adaptable
you know
we basically built on change especially
these last couple of centuries this is
not exactly new to us this is not
something we can't handle and I think
the idea that people would go into you
know lights and rebellions because we
totally a technology that improves
everyone's overall in that living
standard has never struck me as totally
plausible this does not mean that a lot
of people might not you know have some
serious issues though of course with you
know job loss potentially that's
something we've been doing for a long
time and in fact that is the topic of
this week's episode so we'll save that
for Thursday
I was asked worrying of a forever war by
Joe Halderman have you read it if so
what's your opinion have you had in a
long time but it is a classic 40s and
I'm trying to remember more than details
and I haven't letting the sequel's but I
remember liking it I can't go to TV war
thoughts at the moment though Paul
Paulson asked what's the first rule of
warfare again no cheating and say the
first rule of warfare was not to ask
without the forced will of warfare huh
John and so I asked what do all the
research sorry who does all the resource
to prep you for your excellent videos I
do where that's needed there are a lot
of people who work with the channel who
very much help out with that though
typically speaking when we go to make an
episode I'll begin a topic in mind and
we do what's called a but we just do a
brainstorm session on our discord solve
or amongst the various editors and you
know do some things that work with the
channel and that was available at the
time and that's just a free fall and any
time somebody's just a good idea for it
that's what we do but we never do an
episode unless I'm pretty confident that
I could do it from existing material you
know so I don't like to do anything
because I don't know if it's gonna be a
good episode otherwise if I know there's
enough material they are then I'm going
to do it anything said on that point
though makes it better and we've
actually had some episodes get rewritten
by scratch just because of ideas that
can't go into brain storms and large
segments of the episodes I'll often
written or rewritten by a lot of our
editors and you know I actually have a
good question for today because I kind
of wanted to do some of you guys to more
the folks who make up the team here
Christopher agape asks how do you think
we will govern in
future considering that an
interplanetary democracy does not seem
to be practical
you do an interplanetary democracy it's
just you and want to try to do an
interstellar one even then it kind of
depends on on the level of you know ioki
that you haven't going on they are if
you look at the united states just an
example most be familiar with in the
early days of the country most of the
states would need weeks just to send a
message back and forth to each other
that you know get a response from them
and you know they could easily have had
some of those territories would be
months and you weren't too sure what
happened so you could actually have
interplanetary ones all the way out to
the our Oort cloud with days of light
migrants still wouldn't be an issue to
run that compared to how we ran the Oly
democracies on this planet so I do you
think that is viable once you get out
past that level not so much
you'd have to be much more you know
dependent at the point I don't think
most people would actually see a need
for a more federal level of things
between solar systems I think with most
interstellar you know Federation's as
you were they would probably be almost
entirely control at the local system
level or beneath that and everything
else would probably like treaties or
agreements on what language or user
standards or what things towards a
technological ban we're just not allowed
you know no making this you know
essentially killing machines for
instance hmm in this future when the CMB
a stretch to invisibility
could it be detected by relativistic
acceleration of a telescope Unruh
effects that's visually complicated that
I'm going to save that for another time
is where you actually talk about that in
black hole ships a bit Pepsi Atlas asks
do you think we should change people to
the environment or change the
environment to suit humans bio forming
versus terraforming
terraforming you make the planet Earth
like for humans live on and for all the
critters bio forming you make us more
like that planet I think that in almost
every case you're going to tale form
with a little bit of bio for me neither
natural otherwise people always adapt to
their environment most time their plan
is either going to be completely
unlivable so you couldn't even use
biology to a
- they are you can't just have things
living on Mallis like us not in a walk
but there will often be occasions we
could do maybe a little bit of a change
Andrews asked what's your opinion cause
Wireless predictions I tried to comment
on those too much obviously a lot of
those who turned out to be correct or
wrong and you can look at the track
record on those yourselves and I would
just say since I'm often position do
that myself and we did that asthma video
at the end of last year but his
predictions usually you have general
ideas in mind that I'll based off a
logical extrapolation of technologies
try to put a date to that though you
know we always on the channel will say
10 years after all X technology comes to
play because we can kind of project a
timeline from when this happens we can't
say this is gonna happen next 20 years
and you you're asking a push to put a
data though I think when people making
these lists that's one reason why I
avoid to eat them but I've never seen
that much on his list I would disagree
about happening and just win thank you
big muppet and chinchilla Dave also asks
are you excited for the June remake I
love doom um I was actually listening to
heretics name yesterday I've actually
liked all the dune films I really like
the dune III version I'd have loved to
have seen the original one by the name
was Nick guy who's named at them now
it's Jordan there was a previous fortune
of film I think everyone probably knows
who I'm referring to your their familiar
with it though because I can't pronounce
his name I did like the miniseries they
did on sci-fi channel - we're gonna go
to break real quick and I'm gonna get
caught up on the questions hopefully
after that so thank you for joining us
and standby we always do intermissions
during the live stream so I can catch my
breath and refill my coffee and I
thought we'd start filling those by
introducing you to some of the SFI a COO
who helped make this channel what it is
today there's not an episode on this
channel that doesn't resolve from a lot
of folks besides me walkie on them and
now the social media outlets would exist
without their walk and I thought it past
time everybody gets to meet them
hey there I'm Matthew Campbell I'm a
script editor as well as an
administrator for our Facebook group
with the help of fellow admins the
moderators as well as our members we've
managed to put together a fairly polite
and intelligent community for discussing
the ideas talked about on this channel
if you like isaacs content and wish to
continue the conversation then you
should head on over to our Facebook
group you can find the link to it in the
description of every video there you'll
be able to ask questions and discuss
ideas with Isaak myself and our twenty
thousand other members in order to
maintain the ability of our community we
do discourage the discussion of certain
controversial topics like politics or
religion however because these are still
important topics we do have a sister
group known as futurism and society
where you can discuss some of those
things though courtesy is still expected
there too
anyway as I hope to see you there in the
meantime welcome back Isaak
you
okay well back and I still
actually mute my microphone with my
software here I think I need you one of
the ones it's got a button eyes
incidentally that Matt cam what you just
heard from is one of the longest members
here with the channel he helped set up
the original Facebook I don't think he
went quite predates Jacob Gregor who's
all cover artists but we start
assembling a team not long after that
and Matt's been around almost since the
beginning so also the one who invites it
off a lot of our one line was that we
open episodes up with alright back to
the questions thank you the Athol judy
pinto asks has there been a significant
update on tabby stall what are your
thoughts on it
where tab we actually we will talk about
jean-michel Gautier audio um if you're
looking for good updates always check
out John's channel or Paul Gilroy's and
toy dreams they keep very up-to-date on
that issue and I haven't seen anything
to indicate to me that there was much
unnatural going on there that's changed
my opinion that we had back in the award
Foley paradox to a beast all episode the
author asked what video topic have you
done that has given you the most
existential crisis thinking of the
timescale at the end of time the Fermi
paradox um you know almost all these
things we talked about the existential
crisis series or things I thought of you
as a years ago so I've already kind of
passed through concerns about them the
one I usually have that's the standing
one and does relate to the phony
paradoxes always is kind of background
fear that things like consciousness that
we've got as consciousness and this kind
of gets looked at a bit and Peter Watts
novel blindside might be a kind of a
type of insanity and so it doesn't
really develop too often and has like a
limited spectrum like if you get too
much smaller you can't actually be
conscious anymore we don't have much
evidence for that yet but it's kind of
those nagging things that worries me
occasionally free Saxon asks do you
think that transhumanism is inevitable
are they already in a way preparing us
for that um I don't know if I'd say
transhumanism specifically is inevitable
but again people change and adapt and we
may improve and I tend not to like a lot
of the transhumanist approach to
discussing this topic with other people
because it implies that you're doing
something very different something very
I hate to say unnatural but something
without precedent in our society well
it's not without person we've been
improving ourselves when we can in any
number of ways for a long time
some of those improvements come a cost
that probably almost pain some of them
are ones where you're losing something
in the process and it's gonna depend a
lot on the individual which ones that
you know are going to work out for us
based on the technology the culture at
the time and toes are being inevitable I
guess it depends on how you define it
James Dyer asks would you be interested
in a in being part of a Midwest sci-fi
convention I would probably be willing
to attend a convention again well these
days I haven't been one a long time but
I really wouldn't want to speak at one
of those at this time um I'll be
speeding the Carnegie Science Center in
Pittsburgh in early June and it's been
quite a while so I've done a public talk
and if I if that feels like fun
something I want to do more of then I
might do more things like that but for
the moment I really prefer to do things
like this and go to see audiences I'm
not a big fan of travel or actually
being in crowds
skaar Moses asks do you think the
importance of global companies in the
develop of new technologies will
increase in the future and do you think
they could become more important than
countries we've gone through a number of
phases a lot of what we think of as a
model nation is a very different concept
than for instances of hero occasions or
back during a lot of the old Empire so
we think of as you know huge empires
they were really more like a city-state
that had a lot of other city-states that
it was in charge of and you know things
change in terms of how we got one things
at a Eila above the tribe level but you
can't depends on how you're defining a
government for instance as per our
country as opposed to a corporation and
I could see things doing that you know
they I've seen some anarchist model is
where you'd have enough of companies
provided government services that or you
know basically engaged in my time of the
tone for that I say mutually assured
destruction I think it's mutually
assured
so I could see that happening but I see
in particular reason why we progress to
that specific thing or why I'd be a good
or a bad thing per se it always depends
on how you execute the government Punk
privateer ass do you believe it is
possible to autofit early create a
universe or dimension similar to the
walk from 40k I hope not if it's similar
one for the 40k so if you ever seen the
movie event horizon if you're not
familiar with 40k but I've seen that
film it's like a prequel to the series
the warp Theo is full of evil demons and
yet we ugly Warhammer 40k is probably
the most scientifically accurate fusions
the future and Miniver kollek's it's
strange they get many things right that
other things miss that happens well I
think with Santa although you know I got
discord by terry pratchett or Douglas
Adams Hitchhiker's series often or
Futurama oh the Orville for that I don't
often nail certain things on the head
very accurately in my opinion compared
to what we often see in sci-fi I don't
know how we go about creating a universe
dimension like that we'll probably talk
about something like that in a clock
Tech episode at some point but if you
could do it I would hope it would not be
like the one for 40k Astrid Wells oh so
Victor asks do you think it's our duty
to see the universe with life if we
discover life is you need to auth and
did not in fact develop anywhere else
duty no I don't like when we say you
have to do something like that I think
we would I'd be glad to do that but I
don't think we have any particular duty
to do that any more than we have a duty
to run around uplifting species and
other plants if we find out were the
only intelligent life we might do that
but I don't think we have an obligation
to mmm it's only hope that we would
though colonize until we Flint something
else intelligent
Astrid wells asked why are you
apparently so against planetary
habitation against it all if it was
easier to tale form a planet than to
create an equal number of cylinder
habitats then I would say you do that
forest what happens afterwards though is
that you now have a very large amount of
mass devoted to a relatively small
amount of living area compared to what a
sooner habitat would give you there are
ways around that in fact that's the top
of the mat Rios rewards episode that
we're having at the end Oh
April is it the unit yeah April 25th
episode mask Awards we'll look at a
walk-around where you might use plants
more because once you've actually tier 4
min colonized planet you'll very
unlikely to disassemble it and you
probably don't need the metal
anyway because there's implants
habitable plants that would be ideal or
like ones only gonna be very tight
percentage of mass even if we limit that
masked things besides hydrogen helium
but I think the people it's not so much
time against planetary habitation or
terraforming it's that I think people
overall emphasize its role in a future I
simply assuming that's the only place
you can live other than a few space
stations Tiago ass any plans to make a
video about how space warfare will look
in the near future before we were able
to leave the solar system see the
interplanetary warfare episode that one
does take a more near-term look at it
we'll probably revisit that topic but
we'll see how it goes
thank you nazareth asked question
long-range war is problematic do you
think we would eventually agree to hold
wars on X&Y wards and actually honor the
results you know we were talking about
40km moment ago in one of the books that
starts a series of horus rising they
they have a military leader they are
talking to our amendments or basically a
report or if you would about some of the
weirdest species they'd met and one of
those was a very warlike species that
they are going to war with and they
wouldn't fight them in a lot of places
of that they eventually realized they
were always congregating these specific
locations on the planet and i'm there on
the award their cultural they had been
so devastated by war that they had areas
they set aside to agree to only fight
there and say well that's a good idea
and that's been suggested me sci-fi
things and the very next line is and
that was so handy when we got them all
to assemble they only bombed the place
so it's probably not gonna be a good
idea because you really have to trust
the other side to do that now if you
have a third party referee that can
change things a bit and you probably
always would I don't think you'd ever
have to Kate you know in occasion we
just had two major powers and nobody
else in the galaxy you might intercede
Abhishek gah gasps would you be able to
do an episode about the possibility of
existence of souls and hi-oh beings and
nature of consciousness I'm always happy
to talk about consciousness but I try to
avoid anything that would hedge too much
on spirituality or religion and again
there's definitely a lot of things in
science to be discussed of in terms of
that something in the future it's a
topic that's valid for discussion we
avoid it because one it tends to cause
flame wars - I don't like to go down
that road because I'm not an expert on
that anyway and I don't like when you
know experts on a given topic start
talking too much outside their own area
in the format of you know I'm an export
let me tell you my opinions on these
things they'll true now let me tell you
something else that I don't really know
much about myself and so that would be
the throne reasons I don't think I
personally would have anything to offer
on that topic that would be new to
people as to consciousness that's always
a topic we can discuss and that we
probably will discuss in an upcoming
Boltzmann brains episode again King
Alfred should well ask what are your
thoughts on time travelers already
pulling strings in the present day now
the regional reason why would be there
is no motivation for them to produce the
the Seneca we have whatever you're
looking at any these kind of things that
allow alien or you know future
intervention with us somebody who is
manipulating things to their own
advantage you have to ask why is the
current situation look like it does well
and because it implies they were
succeeding whatever they're doing and so
what was the motivation to do it and
this is even more you know important
with something like time travel because
of an alien arrives they have to work
with a situation that already exists
when they show up a time traveler by
destination by definition does not have
to be that they can go right back to
what it is and with time travel in
general you always have to ask we know
why aren't they instead manipulating us
currently why aren't they jumping back
to in the planet for started force
formed and was reasonably habitable and
till forming that Pepsi Atlas ass all
you need at a particular Isaac no I'm
named after two of them I was named
after Isaac Newton and Isaac Asimov for
my force name my middle name albert is
for Einstein
and so parents wanted a physicist I
suppose huh I guess they got that but
not necessary bad thing though I am
actually quite happy with that so it's
Don ramón de BOGO asks how small do you
think human level intelligent creatures
could evolve and how much smaller could
they could they be with tech if they're
using all brain architecture
specifically neurons that the same kind
of we have I couldn't see them getting
much smaller than something in cattle
maybe rat size mean that might be a push
brains use a lot of material but that's
all brains something that evolved with a
different set up for exchanging signals
say an intelligent eye OJ might be able
to get away with something much smaller
than us so we're just you know uh north
I wouldn't see us ever evolving
anything's much smaller than a see a cat
at most in fact I don't think humans
about as small as you can go on another
planet though it just depends on how the
architecture or their brains evolved
follow a question from Hodor
is there an ideal size for intelligent
life what human beings being smaller
also give advantage or disadvantage is
similar to cell volume limitations kind
of the same answer on that one the small
you are in many ways the battle and the
advantage being bigger cause to but if
you're using the kind of basic
biological architecture we use here on
or you're not gonna be able to get to
much bigger or to much smaller than we
all um anything outside about an order
of magnitude of us is probably not
viable but that's with all biology and
you know there's a lot of assumptions
going to just making you something they
use the same methods for muscles or bone
or neurons that we do max well vests ask
when has been one of the most
mechanically interesting methods of
faster-than-light travel you've seen in
fiction mm-hmm a David Weber from the
Otto Harrington series usually called
the Honorable force boogers on basileus
station the gravity waves they use they
are to sail around and the fact they
keep everything at least only on this
area is limited to light speed except
for when
in hyperspace I thought that was very
interesting
from a storytelling point of view and
allowed some very good forecasting of
military naval methods for instance they
switch from having ships that find a
line you would ship a line thing to
having ships of the wall a two
dimensional one we are getting asked
what will happen with Saturn and Uranus
it would be cool to have an
outward-bound episode about it the Titan
episode was the colonizing Saturn
episode and then to look at gas giant
specifically it was more what we were
doing in Jupiter and then in colonizing
Neptune the colonizing Neptune episode
was that colonizing Uranus episode
there's no reason to revisit the series
we don't just do an episode every single
one of those in in there oh you know
that look we might do one on colonizing
Pluto because there's gonna be a lot of
things like that but basically it's by
type of planet and you're honest Neptune
owns that dissimilar and you can all
guess why we pick Neptune's Uranus will
toe asks in how much time do you think
we will have immortality never but in
terms of life extension or biological a
motel in a sense you don't age I think
that's inside this century
I really do you think we'll hit that or
the escape velocity for that in this
century I suspect we have a lot more
problems doing protracted lives than
just fixing the 4th century thing your
stock coming across other things like
you bring not being designed for many
many centuries of storage that kind of
thing but once you hit that for small
call you know it's possible you're gonna
keep going after and you've got more
time to do it
colors 99 asks would you think that our
consciousness would expand with the
ability to travel on a lower scale like
interstellar or intergalactic like what
I what I helped look on life change
I mean it's anytime you open up a new
door like humanity you're gonna have an
effect how we look at the universe
I would hope in a positive way it's
always good for us to be thinking more
about you know what I'll place the
universe is and what our place with each
other is but that's probably about the
extent of it the author asks what does
your family think of your YouTube career
they all seem to like it a couple of my
cousins between Ashok Ralph I'm actually
mountain and Kimberly bo2 it's not
really surprising for me to be honest at
this particular thing obviously is but
no one's really surprised I went into
science education as a war Vic's 86 says
have you considered gayness channel
verified to add more legitimacy I'm not
sure what you mean by verified in that
context I don't haven't gotten my
Twitter account verified yet because
that process confuses me but the channel
doesn't really need additional
legitimacy in my mind colin mcrae asks
would you think that all consciousness
would expand with you we just read
that's one side of screen blipped colin
mcrae asks do you think heritable
genetic engineering is a potential great
fit of filter I really can't see why um
if you genetically engineering people I
think we had this cope with like machine
DNA one time let's say that you you
build you know modifications to people's
DNA that's fine but what do you start
adding to the DNA something that was
actually controlling the creation of the
robots inside you either in your own DNA
or a second strand of something else
that did that and you can make that
hereditary either like mitochondria or
neuquén of DNA I don't see how that
would be a great filter in itself though
and also hello to launchpad astronomy
Varangian bode asks do you foresee any
large social and psychological problems
with people not coming to terms with
mortality as a result of life extension
technology or the hope that's just
around the corner you know I definitely
see these these big technological
disruptions that that people see I mean
technology is very disruptive we've
lived through tons of it I've never seen
it cause the war to meltdown the way
that people so often seem to expect
we are adaptable we've been extending
our lives for a couple centuries now in
a big way we live way longer than people
used to on average and that is that a
huge effect on us I'm you know we can be
very cynical about all cultural times
with some justification but you know if
you look at you know reports of what
various governments would do
you know local governments for instance
essentially or two ago voices now we or
corporations that matter or just groups
we are way longer range planets than we
used to be you know we already deal with
things in context of decades not years
and when we don't do the long range
stuff it's usually because we know
better you know you don't bother
planning around how your computer
software company's gonna be operating 20
years now because that that field of
play changes to you fast make prediction
possible but we're we can't engage in
prediction we do tend to do some really
long forecasting and we do tend to just
kind of take all this stuff in stride to
with disruption of course but usually
you know it's it's old news the day
after and we've already been extending
life a long time it's not gonna be a
miraculous moment where we just cured
and it comes out in the news cure for
lot you know for longevity found no more
aging there'll be a gradual process for
people getting used to it over at least
months while it's an experiment of
trials probably many years or decades
mochou cos asks assuming we had the
technology how many humans could the
earth support when using most the
earth's resources in artificial Golden's
that's one of those kind of impossible
questions to answer because it depends
on what those technologies all if you
have a neo virtually endless source of
energy and a way to get rid of heat then
you probably only need a couple tons of
metal poor person in which case there's
what a billion trillion tons of matter
six billion trillion tons of metal
making of the earth so you know say with
six tons per person a billion trillion
people but you know you have to give it
other heats you have to produce the
energy for that and you probably need a
lot more than six tons to make all the
you know resources and growing space you
gonna need for that but hydroponics
don't really all that massive so the
food thing isn't really an issue
colors ninety nine asks what species of
earth would take over if humanity would
all be killed off probably chimpanzees
or orangutan so I keep my fingers
crossed for raccoons I'm very fond of
them the space meant oh five asks for a
single system civilization Howard von
Neumann probes that set up automated
material shipping slower than light be
advantageous and we're taking resources
from your home system I think you mean
why we ship material back from all those
systems as opposed to harvesting it
locally assuming I went topping that
correctly later than that the answer was
just you would always grab them locally
forced although you might keep a lot of
your reserves on hand and grab them
elsewhere while you can the reason why
you're bringing resource in from other
solar systems is because you want more
than your system has and there's quite a
reason quite a few reasons why that
would be the case again the boss clan at
being the extreme end of that alright
we'll go to another break real quick and
I'm gonna see if I can actually
successfully mute the audio on the
microphone for you that this time
everyone you can make it dries out a
live stream this evening and while he's
outside recuperating for a few minutes
he's and asked if I can say a few words
and you'll be getting more words from
people just like me over the next few
weeks as usual CY hopefully in this
video and my name is Ollie epsom I'm a
mechanical engineer I currently live in
Germany but as you can probably tell
from the accent I'm British
I specialize mainly in renewable
energies a way of energy wind energy and
so forth hardly working wave energy in
the past I've built a few wind farms in
Scotland and before that I did some
arguably left ethical jobs so I was an
officer in the Royal Navy
I designed two nuclear reactors for
submarines when I worked at rolls-royce
and then I moved over to the aircraft
part of rolls-royce where I helped
design FF engines specifically a test
engine called effets and part of that
program were then incorporated into the
787 and Airbus a350 programs so there's
a chance that parts that I've had a had
a hand in designing will be flying
around the world at the moment I don't
know if that gives you comfort but yeah
tough luck day the way and in my spare
time I really enjoy sailing and I like
bagging Monroes which is kind of a
Scottish thing if you haven't heard of
it
and it's good fun to do you could do
something similar anywhere with
mountains in so if you are from the
Netherlands unfortunately you did out
but they then I have a very small
youtube channel my own drawing board 82
where I mainly talk about the
technical aspects of some other home for
TechSoup obviously I do say well now you
can find everything from how to build an
electric autopilot for a boat or an
electric outboard motor to you how to
rig a boat for self steering and the
sail upwind and downwind you can find
out the more mundane tasks such as how
to change the oil on a car or the brakes
on a bicycle or just some really offbeat
stuff like how to tell the klaxon system
of an electric train just by listening
to it so that sounds like the sort of
thing that floats your boat and you like
to cook cup of tea then feel free to
look at my videos just don't get your
expectations too high I make them really
for fun why am I talking to you here
today well I'm part of Isaac at this
production team and that's why you're
gonna be hearing more of us so our first
channel as you can imagine takes a lot
of work to produce and that's been made
a bit easier by a volunteer production
team and we kind of help with graphics
with script editing with concept
development with number checking and so
on and so forth and mostly what I do is
go to the plain storms and try and use
my engineering skills as best I can to
have some sort of positive impact and
also edit some of the scripts as well
and infinitely good fun actually and
it's a chance to work with some really
talented people who as I say are doing
it are the goodness of their heart and
yeah and it helps helps bring this
channel where channel life and so as I
said hopefully you'll be hearing from
more people like me in the next few
weeks in the meantime I would imagine
that Isaac has the keeper rated
sufficiently to return to the action in
the event that he hasn't and is gonna
leave you with this photograph of a
Spitfire in a Boeing 787 flying over the
rolls-royce Factory and
okay and we're back question from
Cohen's kid
oh by the way we're probably going long
ago today then normal how we do but if
we run out of questions or you have
questions we don't get to you answered
feel free to leave those in the comments
below
I read the chat and detail afterwards
but it doesn't let me reply to it at
that point but I do come back to check
the comments later on Cohen's kid asks
what happens to the economy when the
robots do all the walk and do we pay
them you would probably play their
owners if they were not sentient if they
wore sentience that's your typical
machine rebellion issue and I think
you're either paying them or you've got
yourself some problems
k2 despot asks do you have any interest
in making a video in the future about
abstract or eldritch aliens with all
kinds of clock tech or intelligence and
higher dimensions etc we kind of did
that with sleeping giants phoney paradox
sleeping giants was that um last year I
think with a year ago and then as always
a tempting topic to return to but you
know we always like to incorporate a lot
of science fiction of what we do here
but at the same time the focus is more
on the science and a lot of times in
case like that well it's great sci-fi
it's not some kind of hard to do from a
you know from a science perspective
although doing something up maybe like
Mass Effect repose in more detail would
be kind of tempting shockwave ass would
it be a good idea to disassemble every
star in a galaxy and turn them into
maximum mass gas giants without towing
them in the stalls we've an episode
coming about that possibly yes wait till
mulch well I guess on that question in
general it depends on you know what your
timeline is for your civilization star
is all only handy if that's your only
best power source and we'll be looking
at how you might use black horses that
stores your power source in which case
you will most certainly do that as the
stalls themselves you know there are a
lot of variables that come into play but
again we will talk about that more in
fleet of stars and colonizing black
holes in late May mid May emulate May
colors 99 asks would we be more advanced
will we be more advanced would we be a
more advanced civilization if we
continue to develop nuclear technology
assuming we found a way to generate
power in the safest way possible would
nuclear rockets allow much easier
colonization yeah I mean in both aspects
yes
I always guys stay away from the topic
of nuclear power
normal fission power because one I
always mispronounce nucleo - it seems to
cause a lot of controversy for reasons
that I always like to stay away from
there because on the one hand they are
folks who treat it less though it's just
evil and wrong and can never be used
safely on the other hand you do
sometimes have advocates who try to act
as though they all know dangerous to it
at all and they can be used for
everything period I want to see a lot
more research and development on it I'd
love to see us comfortable to have a
better reactors in particular I would
love to see us do almost all electricity
from nuclear while developing other
things too but for mainstay power
generation here on earth I don't think
it's ever gonna have a huge role or for
rocketry leaving the earth on the other
hand in space at least until someone
comes up with a compact fusion reactor
it is absolutely the key to much better
spacecraft and I think people will be a
lot more content with a nuclear rocket
being used you know away from Earth and
we do have an episode on that I think
was the fifth one of what bound series
was the nuclear option but by and large
I think we would benefit greatly as a
civilization if we could develop more
safe or at least more comfortable ways
of handling nuclear technology I would
say that we actually have the necessary
safety already at this point in time but
people are still fairly uncomfortable
with it not always about justification
valentyn breasts or ass are you playing
a video on political systems of the
future or subjects like EBI or AI
planned economies and policies I tend to
stay away from topics like that
you know I get enough politics in my day
job with the elections and I think
everyone's got their own views they
don't really need me to talk to them or
too much about that plus it's always
hard to dissect topics like that anyway
because people have too much emotion
invested to it meet me as well I'm sure
you know you have a topic that you're
biased on and that everybody else is
biased on how do you carefully dissect
its mother these were like the fall
future talk topics because people only
have a set feeling on them in fact we
were just talk about nuclear a moment
ago that's a whole topic to discuss
because people have an opinion on that
they really don't want shift from too
much and so many other people discussed
it and I really don't feel like taking
my time to go into those subjects so so
well-trodden as the political systems of
the future I might be tempted to look at
some of the various options on the table
if I thought I could do that in a
reasonably neutral fashion that people
just think about on their own which ones
are best but that's such a tricky topic
to cover astros asks why our current and
presumably near future space diets
largely vegetarian a chore good question
um that's actually got a lot of answers
to it and will be to talk about in that
no synthetic meat episode on July 4th
since we have a Thursday coming up on
July 4th mmm
that is well those other topics people
get kind of sent their ways about for
all these space conversation you avoid
meat because a cow is a really hard
thing to carry with you into space
especially into a small cramped
compartment about the size of a bus
which is usually most of the space
missions we have in mind or small scale
bases and so that's a pragmatic aspect
you also have to worry about a lot of
disease issues when you're living that
close to your livestock but in terms of
long-range future whether or not you see
meat on other plants would come down to
basically two fact or so other habitats
bigger ones forced is how do people feel
about it epically if people say they
want to move away from meat then that's
what's gonna happen if not then they all
have it there and whether or not we get
a good synthetic process either to grow
meat in a lab at a reasonably viable
price or just you know alternatives like
you know whey protein that someone was
able to shape into a very meat tasting
thing so I was raised vegetarian I have
a lot of experience with meat
substitutes and actually something quite
tasty but they do not taste all like the
meat they are usually replicating
and it's funny I actually like soy bacon
bo T is more than normal Bo T is you
know in front of bacon Steven Moore asks
how accurate is the stealth technology
in the expanse I've been watching a
series and I keep thinking about how you
said there is no South in space it
always depends if we talk about a TV
series of the book book series and they
are very similar in both very good but
there are some points in devotions they
are in the serious talks about a more
stealth in space we say there's no
stealth in space but always talking
relative just because you can detect
anything there's a way to hide say a
single atom doesn't mean you can see a
single atom a million miles away you
know if you just happy point of scope
that way so you could hide a ship from a
certain distance but by and large most
of systems talked about in books or film
or not not liable without technologies
don't really exist mmm and would violate
the laws of thermodynamics will pause
ask could vacuum energy zero-point
energy be a thing and a living and
alleviate the need for star wars for
power vacuum energy is probably I mean
it's real enough at least inside : 3 but
the idea is it's kind of a base state to
generate power you have to be able to
have not like a heat engine I can't get
power from a lukewarm bath tub that I've
got one day to my engine in both sides
that tub temperature differential
we say there's a lot of energy at the
base state of matter in the vacuum you
know how do you tap that so I want so
you could never do it but probably not
that said obviously any time you get a
power source that's better across the
board than another that's what you start
using it has to be better across the
board for that we saw in otherwise
they'd be case where you would have
wouldn't do it for instance artificial
fusion I might nuts why all of our power
in the future we had it just because it
might be easier to to use the Sun you
know a solar panel is relatively cheap
thing to manufacture so you might use
those instead of a fusion reactor or
Neil the near the Sun but then I on the
other system you'd use fusion and even
then it might be a really big and bulky
thing so you might use a fission reactor
to actually power your small ships or
you know radio ethyl isotopes small you
know to power your smartphone because
there's no nuclear reactor on their face
of sarcasm asks have you ever thought
about do you guys have the most
interesting tag names and these things
place of sarcasm asks have you ever
thought about doing a very near future
space expansion series yes although it
can depends what you mean by very near
as I said I often don't really enjoy
talking about things that are current or
very near future technology because so
many other people have touched on that
already and I can't like to open the
doors up to forth her head but we
probably will be doing a second look a
more detailed look at the moon Mars and
Venus than we did in the outward-bound
series although none of the moon
episodes were actually partly on what
balance here is not which of the case
you know there was so much material we
could talk about on those supplies that
really happy to look at them in more
detail but generally speaking when I'm
doing new your tone technology episodes
like we got space planes coming up in a
month in Iowa so you know you start with
what we have right now what we have on
the table for maybe a decade from now
but usually I to explore the concept
start at the beginning and push forward
and see what's the options they also
that one spends a lot of time the
present of near future but still talks
about how these things might be adapted
to you know fall head in time
gee Dexter asks since civil-nuclear
Powell is so closely linked to nuclear
weapons development isn't recommending
the expansion of civil nuclear power
likely the widespread nuclear weapons
proliferation possibly um either there's
no technology is dangerous how you go
about controlling of that is really
depend on the technology and what people
okay what you're doing and that's
obviously a much longer conversation
about policy but you know I I don't like
we say well you can't put can't put the
genie back in the bottle once you open
Pandora's Box you know you're screwed
just because you get a dangerous
technology does not mean that you always
have to pursue that to to some natural
conclusion where you either find a way
that make it not dangerous or you don't
use it at the same time though we do say
you know let the genie out of the bottle
for a reason
any technology developers going to have
a weaponize perform of it that's just
kind of how it goes
any interstellar spaceship is a doomsday
device that's just how that goes I don't
know that we want to shrink away from
these things but that's a possibility
that is a fully paradise people get
sometimes that you then blow yourself up
or civilization says this much
technology and no follow and again this
week's episode techno primitivism
discusses that option of it I think
we'll probably go for another 15 minutes
or so and if we don't get to your
questions again feel free to put them
down the comments afterwards nicholas
Bevans I asked once preferable scarce
company once profitable space companies
arise do you think NASA ESA etc will
shift from space exploration toward
space regulation hmm I wouldn't really
see by NASA or the ESA specifically
would do that they'd certainly be
provide a big pour the people who were
consulted by the governments in question
to look at that but regulation is done
by government legislature at least in
the United States I can't say that's a
case everywhere else but it's not the
responsibility of NASA for instance to
come up with our policies or to if
you're asking maybe if they would do
more the actual enforcement like NASA
shifty and more of a policing force for
space um that's the only possibility and
you know if you're doing a lot
development space you do eventually have
to have somebody who's handling
regulation and enforcement and if that's
the case you would want to draw from
existing bodies that had some experience
and infrastructure for doing that so
yeah I guess that is a possibility will
pause ask with quantum computers
insufficient simulation power to
approximate our space exploration needs
would actual space exploration make
sense anymore a space exploration never
really makes sense in the way that most
people tend to mean that Star Trek sense
where you go and look at plants up close
and investigate them a habitable planet
you want to go and explore that way but
the universe is really homogeneous and
boy
think about in this context so I say
it's not a lot of interesting things out
there but you know you're not gonna send
ships to each individual star system to
look at them I mean we probably would
without the you know before you get on
to colonizing them basically as a
simulation it doesn't matter how much
simulation power you have compared to
how much space you have in the universe
because your simulations are based off
of matter and energy you need matter and
energy to run them to store them and the
more of that you have the more
simulations you can run or the elong
core you can run them or the better you
can run them and so basically if you
need more matter and energy you have to
leave the immediate area go find it and
the exception that we if you had a clock
tech that lets you basically tap you
know some other universe for a matter on
energy if you other than that though
outside of a clock tech that
specifically allows you to infinitely
recycle your energy and to pour matter
and energy from someplace else you
always have a motivation to go and
exploit the galaxy if it's uninhabited
by other intelligent life um but um
there is we talked about the submit
invokes rewards the thing that people
miss with this is it's not do you do X
or Y if you have the ability to simulate
a person you know you've got the ability
to run a computer program that anybody
can in participate in it's kind of a
bartender and in or an adventure full of
characters that are so lifelike that you
can't tell them apart from humans
eg something that's good enough for us
to feel comfortable with as opposed to
natural universe around us then you have
the technology to build a
self-replicating machine that can go to
other solar systems and bring matter
home or what you go colonize universe
for you you had that technology before
you have the ability to make fun games
that we can enjoy that seem like they're
full of real people so you cannot do
these big simulations until after you
have the technology to colonize the
universe and you have a motivation to do
so so any of these ones that rely on
miniaturization or seeming as a
simulation or things like that say we
wouldn't do that because we'd expand in
Ward no you do both you still do both
you're actually better at doing them
because you have the technology to do
the one Matthew asks if the universe
cast the expanding would it be possible
to create a system to harness the
expansion layer by creating a perpetual
motion machine theoretically even tapped
dark energy it would help if we
understood how it works better but yet
thing but the caste scale was involved
for machines like that
the idea being let's take would take you
know Big Spring with things on both ends
of it and we'll stretch that over a
million light years and one in the
spring will be poured away by dark
energy expansion from the other knot and
you can now use that to generate power
by bringing it back in that walks on
people it's a very tiny amount of energy
though that doesn't mean you couldn't
learn how to do it better down the road
Jack we were asked do you think that we
could make helium-3 with hydrogen fusion
instead of mining on the moon if you
have the ability to make helium-3 via
hydrogen fusion the only reason why you
would do that is if you specifically
wanted a fuel that was a neutronic and I
can think of some applications to that
in which case you might have it as a
by-product industry of normal hydrogen
fusion but helium-3 is really not in
that short of us fly especially once
you're out in the solar system and again
if you have hydrogen fusion you can go
mine Saturn or Neptune or Uranus as much
as you want age glass or ass would you
say your channel has helped to keep you
sharp with what you've owned in school
it helps me keep up on my field I
suppose but you know you when you get
out of school it's very easy for people
to get in the habit of conning getting
behind on their own feet or they lose
interest in or maybe it wasn't really
something all that passion about toward
the end I didn't really lost my passion
for physics so I did take a complete
year off and really thinking about in a
complex way when I was forced rowing the
military but I never really lost its
interest for me and I you know obviously
I had to stay updated on all because I
was doing all the stuff that would
eventually get me to start the channel
one of those days but I suppose hope to
keep me a little bit sharp on and I
would give that as a session to people
if you're you know recently graduate
from college
don't let the stuff lost your head stay
sharp on it you know expand it
the only if your field bores you find
another one to do as a
um you will only ever benefit from that
in so many ways and it's so easy to say
that no one's gonna disagree with that
but people tend to find time not to do
that same for something like exercise or
any number of other things that help you
to maintain yourself ask yourself what
you want to do as a person and you're
almost don't gonna come back with an
answer says not you know lor and more
not improve my line so and that's a
philosophy I've usually tried to follow
Leigh Sweeney asks what is the
probability of an Oprah wing being built
within the next century within the 24th
century again the orbital ring is not
really all that complicated if itself or
the hi-tech it's just it's a very
extreme option so hmm to use a u.s.
exploration pioneering sample in 18-49
we discovered gold in California they're
already playing people going out there
and the Louisiana Purchase from about 50
years for that had already been well in
play those areas got built very slowly
up we already had the technology for
railroads at that point in time too and
we were going to put them into place you
know the railroad is something you don't
build to a village a thousand miles away
with nothing along the way except for
that village it's what you build in
their cities they are the openal ring is
not high-tech when the overall thing is
is big it's it's you know why you build
skyscrapers you don't build a skyscraper
in a mass sized city you built them in a
very big city where the land costs
already kind of high no say anything
won't open ring when that happens then
is that you know basically a few
generations at most and maybe just a
generation at or space travelers gotten
the point that many people not necesary
them joy but you know no longer just 1
million but you know thousands if not
millions of people going to space every
year that's when you start to keep an
opal ring we've got time for a few more
questions
Stephen morass one of my all-time
favorite episodes was colonizing Titan
that was a fun episode to do - is it
safe to assume that they are probably
more Titan like moons out there in the
universe or even Titan like plants hmm
there might not be a ton of Titan like
plants this is not really all that big
but tend to be swept into something's
all but I think but I of course it
depends on that solos
and was still bad at modeling those kind
of things as two moons like that oh yeah
I would be surprised if most gas giants
didn't sport some of the super-sized
moons like Titan or the Galilean moons
or Triton and a couple of the other ones
they're really big and then just a
distance thing and that's a very large
distance it's a very large orbital area
that could be a viable planet you know
the distri into people and sat on the
areas encompassed in those orbits is
much more than the entire inner solar
system so I wouldn't go so far as say
you would find a Titan like planet of
moon and every system but even they
would not be the least bit surprising
and of course depends on how broadly
would find that theater I asked would
you rather live in a good non
spacefaring Empire or an evil
spacefaring Empire Oh false dichotomy
question I'm tend to think that to be a
good spacefaring Empire you had to be
good at things in general you tend to
fall apart if you're not not
administrating things well you know you
look at something like the Federation
from Blake 7 not the Star Trek the the
like 7 one that's very dystopian and you
tend things things like that would tend
to fall apart pretty quickly just
because so hard actually especially in a
non FTL universe maintain control if
you're in popular all you're doing these
people don't like or that don't walk out
well but I would always rather live in a
relatively good civilization in terms of
morality than you know then a bad one
and that to me
maybe things a little bit person self a
technology but I think that's a false
dichotomy that I usually think the more
knowledge the more technology and
prosperity you have the more likely you
are to be overall good but that's just a
tendency not a absolute rule and of
course it's just an opinion
Tony amateur asks what plausible future
tech or invention do you see is the most
dangerous to you humanity that's
probably a good one to finish up on most
dangerous ones would be artificial
intelligence it's got the most promise
but also the most danger and that seems
very appropriate they are winning me an
label saving devices it's hard to make a
battle labor-saving device than one you
don't even have
you know give instruction to because I
can just do it itself and that's me is
always kind of the ultimate dangerous
one is the ones that start playing
around with the mind um even ones that
aren't human level intelligence when
you're just starting to make things that
are fairly intelligent how much I was
reading or listening to heretics of
doing the other day they were talking
about one of problems with machines and
in fact Corbett's opinion is that it
doesn't just have to worry about how you
treat the machines is that when you have
a society that is you know very
controlling of machines running
everything on machines you might start
to treat people like you treat machines
and those kinda concerns always have a
big issue with that and I do see that as
those dangerous technology because I
generally am more worried about us
self-destructing in kind of a more vat
or existential dread that I have that I
was blowing ourselves up I don't really
see ego is very likely though all right
we're gonna go ahead and close out Dale
for today just going over the schedule
again real quick this week is our techno
print of EPS primitivism episode on on
Thursday which be our second episode of
the VOC civilization series and I am
looking for ideas for a third episode on
that except I'd like to a few more
discussing those first one being space
prisons that we did back in January then
we're going to have the extra episode on
next Sunday on Clark Tech anti-gravity
and artificial gravity and then we got
the future of pets episode next next
Thursday and then on April 18th giant
robots and power suits
so can't believe I'm doing that episode
and then matryoshka Wars to finish out
April and we've quite a lot more
episodes ahead of there for that but
again thank you for joining us today and
if I didn't get a chance to get to your
question post it in the comments below
when those become available after it
done after the video is done processing
now try to get to them a couple of hours
other than that thank you so much for
joining us today and we will see you on
Thursday
