good afternoon everyone and welcome to
the sfia monthly live stream q a
we'll get started in just a moment but
go ahead and start getting your
questions in the chat window so our
materials can start relaying those
tubing as soon as we start please try to
keep the questions concise and watch
your spelling and try to be polite to
others in the chat we usually go for
about an hour so you probably want to
grab a drink and a snack though we'll
take a break about halfway through too
with all that said welcome and let's get
started
good afternoon everybody and welcome to
our lovely live stream q a here on sfia
we will be into all of your questions
about the show and the channel in
general in just a moment uh first let me
introduce my wife and co-host Sarah
Fowler author who'll be taking your
questions from the chat that the modular
sent to her and asking me those
questions and if you're looking for the
best way to get a question in uh one try
to phrase it kind of clearly without too
many typing arrows or gram rails and
three avoid hot button controversial
social topics and other than that we can
pretty much go ahead and get started
did you want to start by telling the
audience about our visit to the
astrobotica museum Astro robotics Yeah
we actually um for those of you might
noticed on the last episode I mentioned
I was gonna go give a talk at the
Carnegie Science Center again and just
down the vote for them is the
astrobotics facility which also has a
museum attached to it is it moonshot yes
the moonshot museum the shop Museum and
while we were there we saw the Peregrine
Lander for the moon that's going to be
launching on May 4th and I think we were
probably the last people to actually get
in to see this tourists they were
shutting down for that weekend and the
governor had been there the previous day
so it was shipping out that weekend and
uh we'll be launching hopefully
successfully May 4th and that would be a
very nice land of going back to the Moon
it was a lot of fun to actually see it
inside that approach to kind of a
control center of Mission Center and
museum and assembly yard all at once
it's kind of a nice approach so it was a
fun visit absolutely it was definitely
cool and they plan to make more Rovers
so if you're in Pittsburgh it's a great
place to check out that's actually a
really great organization I should
probably talk about some more sometime
but
so we have a question from Raven
wondering if it would be difficult to
walk in a pressurized moon base you know
pressurizing base
um
the the thing about walking on the moon
is the one hand you got that much little
gravity where it's like 1 6 of normal
and on the other hand you're walking
with like a 200 pound suit on that has
got all that inertial mass you know
you'll you notice your mask the ability
to shove things still takes just as much
effort just the crappiest slower so it
is like walking water basically uh
you're very slow fall rates but you have
a hard time pushing forward
um if you're inside a pressurized Dome
uh or anything like that they didn't
have much problem walking around inside
the um
the Pod the Apollo pods they very tight
spaces obviously but movie Man wasn't
really that hard there everything
functions the way you expect it to you
fall down when you're supposed to just
slower and uh it's obviously kind of
hard to step and walk in that but
nobody's actually walked around inside a
pressurized environment of any size
before on in that low gravity so it's a
little hard to say for sure how long it
would take to adjust to that if you
could but I suspect you'd find it was a
very light-footed uh but probably
something you'd adjust to walking in
after a while
so another follow-up to that was do you
think there would be any complications
to living in a moon base that people
wouldn't necessarily think of or whether
you would need to add some form of
artificial gravity
well I think that's that gravity's kind
of hitting the point on Dale you you
think you could walk faster in a low
gravity environment but you can't you
only have good musculature for running
here and if you're running one of the
things that slows you down is how far
it's your strides takes before your foot
lands again so you Propel yourself you
are still going slow so you have to very
carefully push more sideways than up in
a low gravity environments and that's
going to make it a little bit harder to
run in a lot of cases
um and just kind of generally
maneuvering the other things going to
take longer to land and slow down a lot
um on the other hand
other than that there shouldn't be too
many Big Life Changes
um
you're not getting a lot of direct
sunlight because it's it's one of the
situations where there's no atmosphere
to break it down so you don't have glass
domes and you can have those but you
probably don't want to have anyone
actually living in there you'll be more
likely have a garden you want all that
worry about getting damaged there you
know your meditation guard as well I
suppose you're a big food Garden out in
the sunlight other things you'd probably
be uh putting a big metal dirt cover on
top of and bouncing sunlight in from the
side instead so you could limit with the
frequencies will and help with
microbials and dust
um
the biggest one that they encounter that
was a big surprise with the moon
landings was that dust too it's
um really sharp it's never been
weathered it gets into everything it's
staticky cling so those are the big
challenges we've had but the other thing
is mostly that we just don't know what
they're going to be the dust surprise us
completely doing any problem missions
um and I think that we'd find a daylight
aspect also very troubling because it
gets dark for two weeks at a time and
it's just going to take adjustment the
fact that you're basically living inside
a facility so think of like when you're
in the window time in Northern climates
and you just don't go out very much and
a lot of times it's more artificial
daylight than it is the real thing it's
going to be a lot like that a lot of the
time
some harder environments live to Wolf
killer Q says one's automation becomes
widespread how easy would it be for a
person or a small group of people to get
an O'Neill cylinder and set up their own
independent or autonomous Society within
the solar system
um
you know the biggest aspect of that is
is how good is the animation how much
the regulation process if it gets to be
really easy to do then everyone starts
doing it then you do have someone who's
going to eventually want to step in and
say hey look these are the limits on
what you could do with that you don't
really worry about where people are
building your pioneering era where
there's nobody within a mile well they
set their Shack at but when you have a
you know tight riverbed in City Village
then something people care about where
you're building your house and how it's
kept
um
I think that if you have automation
that's good enough that you can
reliably expect the machines to be able
to extract your aluminum or steal and
make it actually into long paths that
they can put in place to basically form
the hole at that point in time I think
it's cheap enough that people could
start really landscaping for
I don't want to say the same price they
could here on Earth but the point where
you'd probably be looking at something
like a more expensive suburban area and
that's where you expect to start to get
rolly in
um probably good enough automation that
you'd have very high power abundance too
because so much what you need for a
solar economy in space uh is needed on
the front end of being something I can
only your cell know because it's so much
easier to make a bunch of reflective
mirrors and panels than it is to make a
good sturdy bit of hole to walk on so we
have a super chat today five dollars
from Christian corello thank you
Christian if wormholes exist and can be
artificially created could they be used
for Interstellar communication if
physical travel through them proves
impossible
um you know that's tricky because
there's a possibility with a wormhole
that you could send material through but
before for causality's sake it scrambled
all the patterns in it so stuff was
coming through but it wasn't coming
through in a pattern in which case you
can't use it for um transmission
um although you say well if I can sit
and matter through the thing then I
should always be able to find some way
to transmit with it because even if I
can't set a signal through I could set
uh you know pulses through instead you
know just a very long Telegraph of it
um it's one of those things of what
particular type of impossible are we
talking about here
um
you also think as if I can send a real
signal through then why can't I send a
copy of someone's Mind through if I can
scan someone digitally why can't I send
that to her too and that gets kind of
tricky we looked at more on our
teleportation episode we only talk about
like a digital copy of someone's mind
though and emphasis copy because if you
actually want to send all the state bits
for someone's individual atoms you need
more bandwidth than the entire planet
has nowadays in order to send it over
like a million years for one person so
you do have to you'll be doing a
compressed file so it's big
Albert Jackson says hi Isaac and Sarah
I'm taking an international trip soon
which had me thinking once we inhabit
the rest of the solar system how will
the logistics of commonly traveling
between planets be figured out such as
optimal orbital transfers travel time
Etc
um it always depends what you're
optimizing for I suppose uh let's see if
you're just trying to like save fuel
something at the home and transform it's
that might be how you move metals and
other things that you just don't care if
they arrive quickly like ice you would
try to move passengers you're optimizing
for how much people are willing to spend
on fuel for that minimum burn time
um in which case you might have some
very specific windows and Lanes
I need also some comfort yeah you might
want a snack and a drink and maybe a
little I think even with very fast
travel unless you're teleporting so to
speak um which you might do digitally
um you you have the issue that travel
inside solar systems takes a period of
uh many days to a few weeks at highest
acceleration and if you are accelerating
the entire time doing that burn and torn
maneuver that we see in the expanse and
other things where energy is basically
free
um you find that even getting something
close like most still takes a few days
and even getting something in Pluto only
takes 21 days unless if you want to
accelerate faster so that's your time
your travel times and so you definitely
need an in-service meal and you probably
don't look at like University in seats
unless you're going to the Moon which
you might be able to do very quickly in
a few hours like a plane you are going
to not be in seats with each other but
sleep or calls like you have on Logo
train rides
um back in the day and then so it's
gonna be what's your cabin look like and
thankfully one thing about space is
there's no air friction so you can build
very big it's mass that you issue not
space and air is cheap right so I think
bigger spaceships that were going very
fast might have some fairly nice cabin
space but I think you'd find that almost
all the really nice accommodations will
virtual and electronic not uh you know
you're not gonna have football fields
under the blue play on
says what do you think
future of ground-based Transportation
oh that's a tricky one um
I come from the Midwest and I'm in a
rural area
um you know where it's hard to go more
than half a mile without seeing a horse
so to me
cars trucks these are things that are
just part of day-to-day life you have
them
um and they are they are attached to you
emotionally as a sense of Freedom right
very connected to you because you don't
have those you can't go anywhere and so
it's rooted at subconscious level you
need that inside a city you've got your
feet to the bus your bike etc those are
much more the sense of Freedom
um and so your modes of travel depend
obviously on what's your economy and
Technology support but also on where you
are that will not change if you're
living out in the countryside and you
almost have to even like a nucleopolis
you still have relatively low population
density you're still going to have those
ground transports although that might be
you know it probably would be an
electric car I think Battery Technology
has a little bit better to phase those
in completely and
um I don't know that will work very well
for air travel like the idea of having
your own flying car we all want one of
those
um they are working on one I saw a
mock-up of a five-person one just this
past week I think the biggest one on
that is how do you power them we talk
about that in space planes is um so
you're not killing around all that
weight and again fuel is a huge issue
for planes and helicopters uh it's even
worse you're trying to do something like
that battery powered because batteries
are not as energy dense per mass as uh
not even close to what we get from
chemical fuels like our best sell like
uh five or six percent right and they
used to be way worse so if you want to
do something that's battery powered what
you're really looking at is beam me
algae to them by microwave to turn the
blades you know spin your blades Etc and
you have some batteries on board that
provide the backup or the signal is
reattaching if something happens get
lost you know enough to land the thing
with so to speak
um and I think that we'd probably see
something like that if people decide
they really want to have air travel
which we might switch over to because I
think a lot of people might say well we
like having roads but they cost a lot to
maintain and and they you know if we
were to get rid of those we all have
flying cars that is technology that's
viably possible but it does require
better energy production first so Mr
Mahan asks if it is possible to bend
reality or work warping reality with
Matryoshka brain processing power
um yes it is absolutely possible uh and
I was just thinking about jet packs and
how you make them economically viable
technically feasible uh everyone wants
their jet pack so how do you warp
reality so that you could have something
that be viable a lower gravity maybe can
you warp reality at all and the answer
is yes you can warp reality uh in what
ways we have an episode coming up on
that I think it's the way we already
came out won't be in reality
specifically uh it's either coming up or
has come out recently and I've forgotten
which and you know we talk about the
various ways in which you can warp
reality you know this upcoming weeks
episode the advanced space Drive
compendium has five or six different
ship designs though entirely theoretical
about how you move a ship by warping
reality and the big one is always
gravity you can warp space and time with
gravity but that's not the extent of
that we know we can warp space and time
and we know that gravity does not
necessarily have to be omnidirectional
we've seen that with Neo collapsing
black holes so match your Excavating
should be able to figure out how to do
those things and do them very well in a
very calculated fashion and I should be
able to actually take advantage of that
but there's other ways in which you
could warp reality though physically
possible a giant brain powered by entire
star should be able to figure out how to
do them so if it is possible they know
how to do it that's probably the key
thing they are
so claytus223 asks if there are any
theoretical ways to improve radiative
cooling I've only ever seen large flat
panels he says
for
radiative cooling yes um
so you can always still do the crinkle
cut you know if you look a lot of heat
sinks they don't have a very flat
surface they actually have tons of
things sticking up to increase the
surface area you do have limitations of
that with radiating heating because you
have to still move the heat around to
all that surface area reasonably evenly
which doesn't happen as easy as people
think but a lower scale you could have
something like a very um spiky surface
we have this with the uh what I call it
the Dyson Spike was one of all the
animations and megastructures it looks
like a mace head off of uh you know like
a more install a maze and it's just a
spiky ball with lots of surface area
coming out as cones
um something like that if you have you
know radios going up inside to move the
heat to them it would let you move heat
out at Angles you are not able to just
do that instantly though because the
thing is if your material is emitting
infrared heat even if the things that
it's going to be bouncy at light off of
do not absorb infrared themselves
because you got all these crinkly things
a mini line in each other if it's
reflective you still have some
absorption so you can only get so much
surface area blow heat away but
fundamentally you aim for a bigger
surface area and then you aim for
something like a vein Network inside
like we have capillaries that will move
heat to it quickly to allow you to get
it as hard as you can and radiate it out
as quick as you can
uh the next question is from Cuda bilka
how difficult would making a clone with
all of a person's memories be
duplicate
um well that depends first on if we'll
actually just saying we're going to grow
somebody in a vet and then like not put
Nanobots in the head to program their
brain
um
if you're going to try to duplicate
somebody I think your better bet is
probably to just Android body them and
copy that in there but uh
because if you're trying to copy
someone's brain State specifically they
are neurons and just copying the nuances
probably a lot trickier than we think it
is there's probably more data on them
than we think
um you're talking about 100 billion of
those things that had to be in a really
precise fashion you know your brain
changes so you don't have to maybe nail
it 100 but better be at least 99.9
percent right
um yeah you try to program those on the
right place moving stuff around
generating heat while you're
transferring someone's Consciousness in
there that that's
kind of a whole deal it's a lot easier
to work in something that's not really
Dynamic like a solid-state Hole Drive
you know so that is generally part of
why we tend to think of that option as
opposed to duplicating someone
organically but it should be possible
again with nanotech and you know if you
can unfreeze so while you make their
brain the right way and then just bring
them up it's just
gradualism is what we usually think of
as a nice way to continue someone's mind
and that's kind of hard to do if you're
busy uh trying to put someone's brain in
there while you only have part of it in
there at once and they're awake and
alive and conscious that's
seems a little bit hard to do properly
we have a super chat of twenty dollars
from Miami's last capitalist thank you
lots of our aspiring writers are in your
community if we ever publish how would
you like us to Homage sfia should there
be lots of Isaac class battleships in
lots of our stories laughing out loud
um you know my friend Carrie Allen Stone
he asked if you know he could put
somebody in there as an homage to me I
said well if you name him Isaac
everyone's gonna see me talk about asmov
and if you name him although I was going
to assume you're talking about clock uh
and it's a it's you know either way so
feel free to but it's nothing I care
about when it's one way or another so he
actually took a step further and
actually the character Isaac Arthur he
changed the original character to the
book to that name so I have one of the
real first edition prints where they had
a different name of the character
so you're suggesting that all of these
authors need to name them Isaac if
you're trying to sneak a little subtle
one in there you probably could just
agree I get the SFI the sfia also or
something like that you could get it in
there I'm it's but to be honest remember
that in a lot of these cases if we're
like well I want to make sure Isaac gets
a note for you know this cool idea about
I borrowed the idea too from someone
else so yeah I'd rather you do the home
it's like if you're going to have a
gigantic you know megastructure around a
black hole namely after power bulge you
know they that's that's where that idea
comes from first and foremost
um and uh I think the problem with
trying how much we get is unless you're
going to be very explicitly Isaac
although people will assume you mean as
level clock I'll be honest I'm fine with
that because they deserve a lot more
images than they get
so scooter GSP says what sci-fi
spaceship depicted in a visual media do
you feel is the most realistic in terms
of following real world laws of physics
and engineering principles
which spaceship
um
which sci-fi because well right because
you have a lot of range there and you've
got guests are the ones people likely
actually recognize you got like the um
Rick and Morty garbage ship that is not
realistic but that might be your
favorite no but it has a lot of a lot of
up almonds on it though
um the Battlestar Galactica from the
Remake I thought was a pretty good look
at how that would be
um depending on your technology levels
uh the Enterprise has never struck me as
very realistic especially because they
get the trailers were like hey the power
went off and that wall freezing nothing
suffocating five minutes later even
though there should be enough air on
this ship for us to live for months and
this ship should take literally years to
cool down to freezing based on how big
it is you know
um but the gravity stays on the
artificial gravity stays on and that's a
special effects thing
um
the file fly from Serenity uh or whether
I should say Serenity from the show
Firefly
um I like that one
um
I think there's a realism to the daily
life of who they are
um
the expanse has some more realistic
ships too but I think it depends on what
we really mean by realistic because like
we're talking about I have a gigantic
spaceship what kind of crew situation
does that look like then something like
Warhammer 40 000 has a better one
because then they got Crews of hundreds
of thousands same as the Star Destroyers
do in Star Wars they go for a big ship
and it's actually got crew on board but
then in an idea of how much you actually
to run it you see that with the
Nostalgia Infinity from Revelation space
where they get some miles long ship and
a crew of six and it only needs one of
them yeah so it's kind of it's designed
to carry hundreds of thousands of people
but it really doesn't need much crew and
it spends most times empty so each of
these things can't depend on what the
technology is how realistic they are
economics the same as is a sailboat
realistic yes is afraid or realistic yes
is an oil tanker realistic yes it's a
battleship realistic yes dude in these
things look at all like each other no
on that note Eric herzl asks what kind
of radioactivity would you expect from
an anti-matter drive would it be safe
for flight on Earth uh from from
antimatter job kind of radiation
um it depends on what the antimatter
particle so if you've got
if you got anti-positrons and
anti-electrons which are getting out the
back side of thing is um 0.51 Mev uh
gamma of a photons coming out the back
which is not the worst radiation in the
board but it's not something that you
would want to be standing behind
although the engines are powerful enough
for anything you've got to use to lift
off this planet is going to kill you if
you're setting the Rock and play that's
that's how that walks unless it's some
kind of anti-gravity engine
um I'm not sure that it really matter
that much of it was gamma rays coming
out the back of it because it was going
to be absorbed to a concrete pad and
then later in the air but uh it wouldn't
really be that healthy
um if it's
if it's anti-proton so anti-neutrons for
instance uh then that's 2 000 times more
powerful gamma rays coming out the back
side of that
um and you know the the damage you get
from radiation is is less to do with how
much while power was coming out and how
much raw energy is in each individual
Photon
um the difference between getting it
rained on and having a bowling ball land
on your head you might have a pound of
water land on your head during a
rainstorm but you're fine but you're not
if you somebody drops a boy you ball
your head that's kind of what radiation
does to organic material so I would say
antimatter is an example of an engine
that is perfectly fine power source
but not on auth you instead use it to
run power generation to run air
breathing Jets you got a very high
altitude I think your comment about a
given value of safety what comes to mind
and I had to laugh because the next
question is a Super Chat of twenty
dollars from not provided and he says I
always notice you like to say things
like you don't personally think alien
civilizations exist and that wormholes
aren't possible Etc however you always
are talking about it are you just trying
to not get your hopes up
um a little bit I mean
a lot of what this show when you get
right around to it besides the fact I
just enjoyed doing a lot of stuff with
sci-fi myself personally I'm a big fan
of it kind of the approach to the show
is let's let's teach science and and
scientific thinking and kind of uh you
know look at what the future might
really be like in the context of what
people actually know love which is
sci-fi it is so much easier to explain
these things in that context than to get
a chalkboard out and scratch it up on
the board for an hour a bunch of
equations
um when that means you have to talk
about ideas that people find interesting
and of course what posts will tend to
find interesting is how do I get to
another planet in my lifetime without
having to have a trillion dollar
spaceship either which means a wormhole
is interesting to us a warp drive is
interesting to us uh Stargate is
interesting to us and uh then I had to
come by and say well here's how it might
work if it did work here's the problems
with if it did work and um here's why we
don't necessarily need that to get space
travel because it doesn't it doesn't
work yeah so so speaking of a trillion
dollars Elizabeth Davis wants to know if
you had a trillion dollars and could put
it towards any scientific Endeavor that
you wished or Endeavors of your choice
what you would choose oh well let's
let's stick with something scientific or
technological because I could think of
an awful lot of entirely selfish
applications of that
um yeah it could be kind of a toss-up
for me would be between
um various power generation options like
I think the world would benefit a lot
from you know better batteries uh maybe
space based solo just better solar
panels in general
and um nuclear power that's what I'm all
coming out so it's a small module
reactors I like the combination of those
um and then I really like I need a
space-based solar power but I don't know
if necessarily going to be the most
economical approach in the future
um and then uh the other one I'd say
that I'd probably be a big fan of
longevity technology
so anything that extends life and again
that's kind of a selfish one because as
we're gonna say it's like what
technology would you most like to see
invented during your lifetime life
extension technology I'd like to live to
see all these things so but that has its
own problems with it if you haven't
already solve some things like energy
issues in furnace fur says should we
explore continuing genetic or combining
genetic modification and cybernetic
I guess it does say combining them twice
they would like to know if we should
combine genetic modification in
cybernetics yeah absolutely um if you
haven't do them at all right there's
always a question well on the future we
have these genetic Superman or these
cyborgs running around and say well well
I'm sure there might be some people who
say I'm not going to have any machines
in my body but go ahead and play with my
jeans and others are like I'm fine with
you I'll put off my almond replacing
with some gigantic piece of metal but
don't play with my jeans
um I think that most people who are okay
with that would be fine with all the
above and
um
like if you're okay with modification
there probably are certain ways you
wouldn't be okay with being modified
like I would not want my neurons
replaced so I can avoid it you know you
know I'd rather have a more pay order or
place buy copies of themselves not
digital ones but you know if that was
the option available uh you know then I
would go with that still too I think you
would see people using you know I think
you'd see a lot more people who didn't
want to either than you'd find people
who will either or so most people be yes
to both know to both and I've also
handful would be no to one or not a
certain parts of one
so Sono Bello says what is your favorite
alien species design wise design wise
oh God that's tricky um
there are so many of them um
well if because if we're talking alien
species throughout the Vulcans
throughout the Klingons they'll they're
humans they're just with God different
forehead right there's nothing different
about them although they represent some
kind of cliche cultural aspect uh over
the top hyperbolic representation of you
know the Roman Legions or scientists in
general right
um
ah which also kind of rolls out almost
everything with Babylon 5 or Mass
effectors to my favorites
um I was kind of fond of the Asgard from
Stargate but they are just little green
men and purpose or gray man cool aliens
cool aliens design wise
and with that we stumped the new
president of the National Space Society
Isaac Arthur producer and author of
Science and Futures and with Isaac
Arthur is stumped
sometime later on in in today's show
on that note uh speaking of being the
president of the National Space Society
Yoda watt says what are your plans for
the National Space Society now that you
are the president well I tend to take
the attitude that the best way when you
get inside like an organization that
you're new to in terms of leadership is
not to pointlessly rock the boat
um and so I'm going to wait until I
understand everything a lot better in
terms of what the existing folks and
structural really want to do and where
we're aimed and then to
than to do what stuff was appropriate at
that point in time I don't have any
plans yet but I'm planning towards those
plans another big one is space
settlement my um fundamentally in the
NSS the president plays the spokesman
role and the joke where the offering
position is I've already been doing it
anyway for years uh because I had made
um you know like the becoming you know
planetary species playlist which is
itself
um
you know basically the roadmap the NSS
puts out only extended
um and you know I plugged a lot of the
events too just because I like the
organization so fundamentally the nss's
focus is about achieving human space
settlement which is a very long game and
that's a big goal of mine too so it's
mostly just to raise the awareness of
them and uh a lot away is basically what
I already do
so I have two quick questions to fit in
before the break uh actually the first
is more of a comment from April van Ryan
thank you for your Super Chat and she
says I just wanted to say hi to everyone
I love the show thank you
and
this one is more of uh you know how
suicidal are you feeling today uh hello
thank you for your thank you for your
Super Chat Isaac as a futurist how is
married life going so far oh that's why
okay did I figure that out let's shoot a
Saturday
um
one of the things they tell you when you
you know you think about getting married
about the first two years or the best
then it goes downhill anything when
other people say well the first year was
the hardest year and everything after
that just kept getting better and better
and now that we're coming on our third
anniversary next month
um it has just gotten better and better
I really do enjoy them I'm not just
saying because my wife is seeing right
there in front of it is a safe choice
though it is a safe Choice uh well you
know again
um I'm not going to give people life
advice in terms of marriage rival even
at it for just under three years but uh
I would say that if you treat like any
other relationship out there the big
thing is just oh man ball never to take
stuff for granted you know so how's your
costume on yourself
um you know that you have somebody else
who dissolves your time tension patients
love then you're probably gonna get that
returned as a good investment so I would
concur it's going wonderfully and on
that wonderful note we shall go to our
break well one break it's a great time
to get some drinks and snacks like we're
doing here in the studio as well as to
get more questions into our moderators
as you may or may not be aware I was
recently elected the president of the
National Space Society with as many
thousands of members and Decades of hard
work helping influence and shape space
policy and our vision for space
settlement it is a serious honor and I'm
looking forward to the opportunity
needless to say I'm pretty passionate
about the topic and in this era of
renewed interest in growing presence in
space it is pretty awesome to be
selected to help Forge policy in all
path to the Stars if you are interested
in getting involved there are a lot of
local chapters and like most groups
these days it's got a large online and
virtual presence I'll link it in the
episode description
it did have me thinking on a question
folks sometimes ask which is if I think
space exploration utilization over this
Next Century will be more
government-funded or privately funded
and beyond that if I'd expect space
habitats and planetary settlements to be
more public financed or private and
those are both tricky to answer since it
would depend on how civilization itself
moves for instance if civilization
suddenly takes a big shift to Marxism or
anarchical capitalism we could expect
100 exclusive public or private funding
respectively and otherwise we should
assume a mix of both as we do now I
suspect we will see a lot of gray areas
on projects and in the general notion of
public-private Partnerships as in you
expect the state to build the space
elevator and if not then to assist with
its funding or acquiring rights of way
but it wants a regulatory control of it
and Priority Access for moving troops or
spy satellites or whatever up it same it
is very unlikely in the current
environment we would just let someone
say this asteroid is mine to mine or
this region of Mars belongs to us
without being granted by some government
identity that probably has treaties with
other countries on it but they also
might be providing land grants and
favorable loans to develop places on the
flip side of that if space settlement
got easy enough you might have to deal
with someone grabbing an asteroid on
their own and claiming to be a sovereign
entity and asking who if anyone would
claim them will kick them out by force
or on the private end of things you
might not have Space Marines or soldiers
but rather private mercenary groups that
could be hired to do security or
Conquest sci-fi and history both give us
lots of examples of this and other
options of what's going on out on the
frontier my own hunch is that space
settlement will be a fairly slow rollout
over the next century and largely
shifting to private companies handling
launches and installations with the
government regulating them and being
their largest single clients but I think
it won't be long before they shift from
being the majority share of business to
Simply being the largest client base
we've got something like two other
countries out there who probably would
like to have some sort of presence in
space after all and and it is hard to
imagine any other entity exceeding them
I would take for granted that early
space settlement will be either entirely
government funded or nearly so but after
a time I would expect that to more
of that incentivization for settlement
process and that might get tricky as why
there would be economic reasons for
colonizing space you might also see a
major push for this or that group that
wasn't well liked by most folks or
didn't like them to want to move off to
space they are promised land or Utopia
to be found or made there those could
overlap too and asteroid mining Prospect
might be grabbed up by a political
ideological or religious group seeking
to be away from others and viewing this
as their Pathway to getting permission
and funding which might sound very
pleasant or very irritating depending on
whether you're thinking of some
idealized pioneering County you would
love to join or some group of obnoxious
lunatics you would love to see gone but
don't really fashion as Humanity's Van
Gogh to the Stars
but the good news is there was an awful
lot of space out there and when it comes
to space habitats the neat thing about
them is that they are basically
spaceships so if you don't like your
neighboring habitat you can move and
with all that said let's get moving on
back to our live stream and more of your
questions
all right and we're back
so we had a second question here from
Christian corello thank you again for
the super chats Christian is it more
efficient to have space planes capable
of both Interstellar travel and
Atmospheric flight or to have a separate
spacecraft with space planes
um it does depend on if you
um so this way if you have sufficiently
good technology your your plane would
take all the time and needed to go ahead
and reassemble itself to you know be
better suited so you'll come in from you
know still a little trip to get ready to
land and it turns into something that's
very good at AO braking and then of
course when it's done doing that it's
going to throw itself and something's
better flying out of the air then back
into a spaceship it might have a fairly
mutable geometry but more likely you
don't actually use those on plans in the
first place you'd use something like an
orbital ring space tether to get into
space and then from there you have your
spaceship docked
so it would be nice to have one directly
from your house obviously and that is
potentially in in the codes I think
though the you know Stellar spaceships
in particular those more likely be
something that was parked in a high
orbit and your you know planetary stuff
too and you pretty much go up to low
orbit and take a ship there and then you
don't have to worry about if you're
blowing gamma rays out the back of your
spaceship from anti-matter
new Ono would like to know what you the
future of energy storage is both on
large and a small scale oh black holes
ultimately the future of energy storage
is always black holes but
um you know assuming that we don't get
that magically cracked in the next you
know however long I mean that might be
something we figure out in the next you
know Century or might be something that
takes us millions of years but um
I think that
graphene battery storage is probably the
big one uh not just because it stores
are more more power and a little device
so much as it lets you charge and
discharge it a lot faster
um and then power transmission to those
would be a big thing
um
so much depends on how you're actually
generating and storing your power though
so like molten Salt's a good one if you
want to sold the economy and you don't
get better batteries if you find that
you have limits on these things and we
can't always you're going to keep
improving something if we don't get
better electrical storage capacity then
you go to Thermal storage capacity which
is molten salt and there's just so many
dependent factors on all of those as
well as to what are you trying to store
it as so like you could actually have a
fusion-based economy where we sucked
carbon dioxide and water out of the air
or
um sea and turned it back into gasoline
just because gas is very energy dense
um and much easier to store than
hydrogen which is even more energy dense
but doesn't like to stay in things but
there's another application of graphene
if we think that maybe graphene makes a
good line of things to be a bit of
storage tank for hydrogen so so much
depends on on little tiny technological
shifts that we can't predict yet for
that speaking of a technological shift
could to shift that little technological
button real quick please
thank you while you're doing that I'm
going to read you the next question here
from the Tyrant of roon thank you for
your Super Chat of 4.99 we definitely
appreciate it do you think the future of
Humanity's technology is more
biologically or mechanically
technologically inclined or something
else like technologically non-available
but a lot of she was still going on
could you repeat that question real
quick we seem very technical issues
I thought it was going out because it
died on the computer screen in front of
me but uh Tyrant of roon thank you for
your Super Chat of 4.99 do you think the
future of Humanity's technology is more
biological or mechanical
biologically or mechanically
technologically inclined
um that's one of those ones where it
gets into what people are comfortable
about okay
so as a side note we got hit by a really
bad storm last night in this whole area
it actually knocked all Greenhouse over
which we've been busy building uh for
all winter as well as tore the roof off
or Brother's Bar and a bunch of other
things the area got smashed so right now
we're kind of glad we actually have
power in actual landline key before
transmission if we disappear that
probably means the wind took it out
um
do we go more mechanical than biological
is trying possibly kind of a false or
artificial dichotomy there
um
you know we
Isaac Asimov used to provide a lot about
you know a steel versus uh you know
Carbon or ironic based life right he was
thinking robots being made out of steel
there weren't any semiconductors yet so
silicon wasn't on the radar and so now
we talk about silicon versus
carbon-based you know existence and um
one of the big shifts you have to think
of though is at what point in time is an
organism so engineered that it counts as
mechanical right at what point in time
something mechanical basically I love
the life form too if it's self-repairing
and you're probably going to find with a
civilization that in the Neo term we try
to keep it as much classically
biological as we can but that might
start to fade or get crazy in certain
areas after a while
um in the long term I think what you
really have isn't so much mechanical
versus you know biological as
purpose-built artifice versus
generalized Machinery you know
Matt s thank you for your Super Chat he
says do you play video games and are you
familiar with Tara Invicta uh less than
I ever get to you any of these days I
don't get to play very many video games
uh I do know too Invicta but mostly in
the context of people telling me it was
busy like uh you remember the board game
Risk yes yeah basically that but the
aliens
um I don't know how fair that is though
um but uh I I find risk takes very long
time we play that sometimes on board
game nights
um but I like the missions version
better because it's so much shorter the
only video game I've played recently
um is Samuel's railroads which is a 2006
game anyway yeah I actually thought I
might have time for of late I want to
get was Oregon Trail they apparently
remade it and I used to play that like
crazy in the late 80s so just like the
idea of us having to eat all of the
people going over things mountain pass
in Oregon we have two episodes coming up
on cannibalism uh in April
High volts and uh what was yeah High
woods and hungry aliens so yeah
definitely not cannibalism though as we
discussed in that episode uh but yeah I
love the Oregon Trail as a kid the the
history of it but more the video game uh
which was one of those old well I guess
it was Apple 2E not dos but uh old old
pixelated text games so I was kind of
curious to see what the new how the
digital version looked like but I very
rarely have the time video games anymore
sadly oh I shouldn't say sadly I have
the time but I enjoy a lot of other
things more than the video games these
days
Albert Jackson says Isaac would orbital
Rings eventually displace aircraft
travel for traveling around planets I
thought of the logistics of this and I
can't decide
um more likely you would supplement them
the same way you do like trains right um
orbital rings and space towers are an
amazingly good place to jump off of with
us with an aircraft and then pretty much
Glide down any location you want and
also because no Brewing probably only
needs about 40 miles off the ground to
be safely circular around the planet in
most places you could actually achieve
that with a plane you know especially
with certain modifications so you'd fly
up to the orbital ring refuel or hop on
board a train that would fail you to
some other location and you jump off
that and glide down the rest of the way
or Glide under power which is flying to
another location and that'd be very fast
it also would save you so much fuel and
um you know I think the the biggest
issue though is that
again we were talking about like Urban
travel options versus Suburban or rural
ones
um a space plane is something that you
might be able to have in a in a suburban
area
if it had the ability to kind of turn
off its bigger engines and and just
basically use regular b-power and air
travel for though I want to do it so you
don't get like the Sonic booms as much
in a city no flying cars you're never
gonna have flying cars in a city like
that you have a tether though right from
that City to the d-ring for instance and
you could take that up like a tram line
and so we have a question then from
Miami's last capitalist and thank you
also for your Super Chat how much weight
could an orbital ring really hold up
could I dock could I own a dock for my
personal spaceship there or would it
hold whole cities it depends on how big
it is um you have to be careful how you
distribute it because it's still made
out of real Structural Materials
um
essentially what's going on there is if
I can orbit something that I can uh you
know sit on open a ring too because
that's what you're really talking about
if I make an orbital ring that's got the
mass of the Moon and it's got the main
piece of it moving around it twice Auto
velocity inside there then I can balance
the mass of the Moon on it but not in
individual location I have to spread it
out and so and that's enough Mass to
cover the entire planet uh what
some kilometers deep I don't know 180th
of the uh Australia steep so
um will be like 50 miles deep 80
kilometers or something like that so
very deep and if you can do that with a
moon then you could do that with
something much smaller
Orion spur thank you also for your Super
Chat five dollars what do you think
David fravor's Squadron actually saw
also known as the infamous Tic Tac UFO
um I think they saw a Tic Tac UFO
um you know this thing is
um
I don't like the entire conversation
around those because to me it's you
you're stuck up assuming you're having
to question someone's individual witness
testimony and as I remind people
um just because you're in the military
doesn't make you an expert observable
and just because you fly planes doesn't
mean you have any idea what something
flying through the sky looks like or
means any more than you've been driving
a car for your whole life and can thus
identify any ground-based object
um
you cannot tell how fast things are
going or how quickly electron by eyeball
alone it's just not something you can do
but what the equipment says or what they
are you know measurements might say in
contact with other people's measurements
that gets a little bit trickier are
there things that could do the job
um there's just not update to really
make an observation about that you could
say well who might be able to actually
spoof them with some piece of equipment
and showing off possibly another piece
of the US military you act like they're
going to create like well we'll try and
see how stealthy this was so we decided
to run up against the thing most likely
to be able to detect it one of our own
aircraft carrier flames and then well
should we tell everyone about that no
let's keep our stealth system sequence
still please that's the sort of thing
that could easily happen what other
country might do it right uh if it were
alien uh what could it be well you get a
lot of examples of things that could do
those kind of high Chi tones they talk
about
um and without necessarily having a glow
a missile you know it doesn't have to be
that impressive to do things like that
uh something that's got say uh
carbon graphene sale they use a
parachute could suddenly deploy
something like that ultra thin and do a
braking removal that was very very fast
there's all sorts of weird options to
become on the table at that point in
time even without leaving the area of
known science which is always available
it's going to be someone's anti-gravity
driven alien spaceship I don't think it
is but as many people say what do you
think it is I have no idea no clue at
all I can only kind of look at the loose
options that anyone already knows
ever toaster thank you for your Super
Chat of five pounds if you had a
spaceship which could accelerate at 1G
would you be able to travel anywhere in
your lifetime and I'm going to rephrase
that to say would you be able to travel
everywhere in your lifetime if you're a
special could travel 1G correct and you
could just do it infinitely
um
annoying all the problems you'd have
with doing that after about one year of
traveling at 1G you've reached the speed
of light now you haven't actually
reached it but you'll hit that place
where you're actually having massive
time slow down to the point where you
can reach places very quickly so
basically and then you need a yield to
the seller from that means all your
Travelers take two years of your own
time
and that means you can get anywhere in
the universe in two years other than
place that over the cosmological horizon
from your perspective uh but the problem
is that you still have to do the real
time Journeys there so you can do every
trip you want to so as two years apart
and that means that if you want to go
revisit someplace it might be tens of
thousands of years before you get there
again but it only seems like two years
to you
and there's 100 billion stars in this
galaxy allowing more on that so you
cannot reach them all at that speed
because you know 200 billion years over
your personal time uh and the input tens
of thousands of additional time set of
actual travel time and they're all gone
by then
all right not provided again provided a
Super Chat of ten dollars thank you
where did you get that funny clip of the
blue alien with tentacles and his dimly
lit lab rummaging through his lab
equipment and can you show it more often
I you know I feel like I use that clip
as often as I can reasonably get away
with without getting too boring
um you have a 30-minute science show
that comes out once a week and you don't
have a Pixar like budget you're going to
be using a lot of Clips I love that one
of the crazy the only one with tentacles
there's three of those clips I would
someone put more of them out there I'm
gonna guess those who off of storyblocks
um that they could have been pixel Bay
there's a handful of sites I get stock
footage off of including Getty but then
after I use them enough times I pretty
much remember was that clip and there's
tags on so many ways actually at but
probably probably story blocks
do you like the blue alien featured the
best I love the crazy Taco yeah he's
weird yeah
oh my
she's looking through here my favorite
alien clip is the one that we are gonna
try to like put it up on screen right
now because it'll probably not work out
well
um but uh it's the one that Ken York did
where it's got the three Roswell style
aliens drinking at a table and one of
them passes out after the old joke that
uh Alien beer it's to die for uh the
assumption that you could pretty much
never actually drink aliens uh alcohol
although substances they've grown
because it would instantly poison you
and die
Sono Bella said disregarding budget
practicality and Common Sense which is a
lot of disregards how much destructive
power could you cram into a
terminator-like Android under known
physics
on a known physics okay so it's got an
anti-matter bomb hidden inside doesn't
count I was about to say an
anti-mountain powerless horse so it's
giving antimatter bomb inside even
antimatter power source or buying that
if we're not going to use nml
specifically
um a small self-refueling Hawking black
hole in the ton range which should have
a lifespan of less than a second
um
so yes better than anti-metal since we
have a size limitation
a big black hole inside the thing would
that be kind of uh loud when it's
absolutely cheating uh no it wouldn't be
loud
um unless it it lets it stop the key
it's fuel supply in which case it would
explode
and take out that consonance I believe
so okay so and then you yell that
running railgun so I think yeah since it
would be so loud
and you would be totally blown up it
would not actually hurt your ears right
I think it would be above above sound at
that point in time
um some volcanoes have the things like
the maximum the maximum decibels you
could have in normal AO is like 192 at
that point the time the I can't with the
speed of effects but basically it's it
the pressure wave is too high to
actually conduct sound normally in ale
so
I think we're actually wrapping up the
questions here we have one from
applewolf thank you for your five dollar
Super Chat Dead Space Games disregarding
the Necromorphs how probable is it or is
it too exaggerated in its resource
scarcity and thanks for what you do
I know the Civic case well enough to be
able to answer that one it's got a
fiction woman but basically every sci-fi
scene that's going for the like um I'm
an asteroid Trader I'm a most Dairy
travels Awards with my battlemack or my
personal spaceship mining asteroids
resource scarcity of that skill is just
not realistic it's it's a wild west kind
of flavoring
um you know you're treating those little
pots and pans around on your ship or
whatever it is your Tinker or any of
those kind of things have way too way
too skills for resources it's like the
um in the expanse with like we're
running out of air and water and so you
have spaceships with actual Fusion torch
drives on them you will never run out of
air and water ever it's it's basically
saying I have enough water to do my
entire Farm but for some reason I can't
kind of need to drink for myself
I just need a million more gallons for
my phone but where could I get one clean
cup of water it doesn't fit you know
Andy black ass
how many Starship launches it would take
to build an isv from James Cameron's
Avatar oh God I don't even know how
massive that thing was um
uh you know we actually have avatar
coming up in our life on giant moons
episode
um in a couple of weeks because we're
going to talk about Pandora there
um those movies are probably I would say
probably more romanticized view of uh
visiting other alien plants than realism
You've Got an Alien Planet on Alpha
Centauri um that has a unique resource
found nowhere else in the universe I
don't think any other type of realism
was really on their own zone right there
when they were putting that thing
together
um
and uh and I know Stephen Baxter did a
science van Tall book and he's obviously
top-notch and his realism but still I
don't think we saw it there um trying to
put something like a super Ryan Drive in
space you know we might have to have an
entire Megaton of spaceship or more
several Mega tons of spaceship
um then you say well we can bring up say
I don't know the exact carrying capacity
of the shuttle was but let's say 50 tons
of flight in which case if you need a
million tons up there for a very big
shoe ship you've got to have two
thousand
2000 flights or 20 000 flights so twenty
thousand flights bit of an order I've
made two difference there that's a lot
of flights that's more than we've ever
had the space in my resource
um we had a a interesting question here
when you're talking about the speed of
light silco says what do you think the
damage of a small needle can do
accelerated to 20 to 50 percent of the
speed of light a small needle it can go
right through someone
um and maybe kill them from the
radiation damage
um one of the things we have like needle
guns and it had those in biotech think
of like Becca serious morelio they'd
shoot people with a needle gun which
Tyler will you know basically like a
tank Sabo but a cable building much
smaller and if you shot someone through
the head with a needle there's a very
good chance you wouldn't kill them uh
even right through the brain uh just
because it's not actually doing that
much damage it's like um if you had a
big solo sail and it got hit by micro
meteors what would happen to it the
answer was very little it would just
have a small hole in it
um
it's not just about how fast something
goes and this is the issue you have with
bullets when to say well you want a fast
bullet you don't actually want to build
an essays armor piercing to shoot
someone with because what you mostly get
is a small hole through them as opposed
to actually damaging them as much you
aiming for
um and I think you had that same problem
with something like a needle for
instance now if you're shooting at a
planet you're gonna deliver all that
energy into that planet with a you know
supervolatophistic needle uh which would
be quite a lot it's just this mass
energy at that point um which case you
can go ahead and convert that into
however many tons or megatons of kinetic
energy it has uh but don't necessarily
assume that's going to go through a
Target uh the way we expect them to just
blow up from it
um I'm pretty sure if you got hit by a
lot of us veto as a person you would die
but um I'm not actually 100 positive
without running the numbers that that is
the case it might just be like you get a
burn hole through you lightsaber style
after all we get hit by photons going at
light speed that doesn't necessarily
kill you either
I think that looks like it wraps up all
of the uh main questions for today
um so we have done many questions
there is always a lot of chat in the
chat and so maybe you can pop in later
and make a few comments but I think that
looks like uh wrapping up the questions
all right so on that note we will go
ahead and switch off and we will see
everybody for our upcoming episode which
is Advanced spaceship Drive compendium
which I believe I think probably two
hours long but not just an hour and 40
minutes so it'll be our second longest
episode ever and uh Sarah is in that too
so we will go ahead and sign off for
that and everyone I will see you on
Thursday and then presumably Friday
Saturday and Sunday unless you actually
have time to watch all that you know
have a great weekend
and then I'll try to manage the stream
off oh there it is
so that will wrap us up for the day I
want to thank everyone for joining us
and again if we didn't get you a
question feel free to post us a comment
below and I'll try to get to it this
evening also you can continue the
conversation at any of the forums on
Facebook Reddit Discord or our website
isaacartho.net
thanks for joining us and we'll see you
Thursday
