as performance improves for automated
Vehicles there is that question of when
and how as well as if most vehicles on
the road will be self-driving I would
guess inside the next 10 to 20 years we
will reach the point where self-driving
Vehicles will outperform the average
human in terms of fewer accidents though
they will likely be more susceptible to
some types of accidents than humans and
vice versa a human with an AI copilot
assisting is likely be the norm in the
near future as human machine teaming
currently produces better results than
either on its own and the cost of a
driver for a freight vehicle while
significant is often less than the fuel
or other vehicle cost and the driver can
serve other functions too serup so human
machine teaming for more discussion it
is likely insurance rates will drive
adoption of this technology as insurance
companies might offer discounts for
folks who let the system automatically
take over in bad weather or if they were
tired or drunk or keep them from
speeding too much
