show recent episodes and general science
Concepts and news we'll be starting in
just a moment and feel free to put your
questions right into the chat for our
Moz to come and scream and please try to
keep them clear legible and
understandable as always we welcome
super chats to help support the show and
you can also find links to our websites
and other options in the episode
description with all that said welcome
and let's get started
good afternoon everyone and welcome to
science of Futures and with Isaac all
those monthly live stream q a as usual
we'll be taking your questions live from
the audience as given to us by our
moderators and by my lovely wife and
assistant Sarah
no
uh before we get started I just want to
give them the quick announcement uh that
we are probably going to be skipping the
Thanksgiving live stream at this point
in time that's kind of a guess that's
not guarantee at the moment but we
should be having this one next one and
then I'll January 34 sorry December 31st
but at the very end of the year but
maybe not one for Thanksgiving yet
that's not quite decided all right do we
have any questions to get started we do
actually have a question from Christian
corello Super Chat for 99 thank you
Christian would an Orion Drive spaceship
require large radiators like other
spacecraft and what's the best method
for decelerating and steering such a
spacecraft
uh for the celebrating we usually assume
you're going to use the exact same thing
in fact the general idea with the Orion
Drive is that you might be able to
accelerate using something like a beam
from in system to get you up to speed
and then use the Iran drive to slow down
there's another one of our options uh or
you might use a variation of the ram
drive that strips matter at the back
from an energy beam as opposed to having
nuclear bombs on board but either way
you can use the nuclear bombs pushing
the ship to slow down to you or to steer
it in terms of actually changing your
Direction with an Orion drive that is a
little bit trickier because we usually
assume a very flat plate which means
you'd have to start pushing the bombs
off from a bit of an angle now you can
just detonate them behind you and to the
right a little behind you on the left a
little bit but you're going to lose a
fair amount there that's a lot of times
why I tend to suggest using something
more like a parabolic dish for that
just because it gives you a bit more
toning power and of course the thing is
you could have multiple
um sales or push replace you put on the
back of a ship like that where you just
win out Eva and uh switch them around
you know and doing the Corso trip
um
always had when they came running down
the length of the body of the ship for
those who don't know since it might be
confusing and Avion Drive is all big
Interstellar strip design that we
actually can make work right now uh that
uses big nuclear bombs behind the ship
to push the ship up to speed and get
somewhere between a little under one
percent to maybe as high as five percent
of light speed so it makes it possible
to get a ship to some place like Alpha
Centauri if not necessarily a human
lifetime then inside generational it's
time spans but it's not insanely long
um and then the question was whether or
not you need heat radiators and that's
the thing that gets people about
spaceships that we always think of a
silk code in space but space is usually
hotter than say Earth
um because all it is doing absorbing
sunlight all day long out here for
instance it's very thin it's so thin you
could freeze to death in it if that was
always keeping you warm and you wouldn't
Shadow but uh it's very hot overall in
terms of raw temperature heat and
temperature being different you need to
radiate that out from your ship and the
only way you can is by photons or
infrared radiation so you need to put
really big
really big photons of really big radios
on the side of the ship and that way
that can give out the heat but you do
need those for anything that you do with
it because if you're blowing off gamma
radiation bombs behind you we can't
really reflect gamma rays right now so
what's getting absorbed are those gamma
on those x-rays is being absorbed as
heat in a lot of cases so that's going
to blow off as a blade of Steam on the
back of vapor uh but not all of it and
this could be heat that goes up that
pump so yes you do need radiators on a
Divine Drive you need them on every
other type of spaceship basically too
and you might need them so bad that you
might as well have something the size of
a solo sail uh in some cases just to get
the energy collected on them so
interesting hybrid options you might get
for those
he says Dear Mr and Mrs Arthur profuse
thanks for your warping reality episode
it answered a lot of questions for me I
Now understand that physical constants
in reality probably can't be changed
well yeah that's that was always that
one we'd like to do uh to change would
be um what if we could change the
physical constant would change the speed
of light
um you know one of the things we don't
tend to think about is almost all the
helium and hydrogen in the Stars we look
at say oh well helium is what they make
as they burn and that's true but most
the helium in our sun has been there
since the Big Bang it didn't start off
its hydrogen toward the helium you know
the sun only a couple percent of that is
is from you know the sun doing that
um in the first minute of the Big Bang
space was so dense that wasn't just like
the interior of a star where a fusion
happens to an atom maybe once in a
billion years it was like the core of a
supernova and in that very brief period
of time uh something like a 12th of
available protons uh collided tone to
neutrons and toned to helium
um had that gone on at that density for
even
oh no another second uh where just a
higher amount just by that much you
might not have had anything other than
the helium left over on the universe by
then very different kind of Lookout
which might not see the physical
constants really matter for um whether
or not you could have life in the
universe at all and you get the same
things like if the speed of light it
won't increase so uh
um if Planck's constant which increase
too so fastening top we need to cover at
some point in time but yes we cannot
change physical constants but we could
do some cool things we could I think you
have an episode on that coming up thank
you dark cloak for your Super Chat as
well did you ever think aliens build a
Dyson swarm around Tabby's star
um that's a tricky one I refuse to do an
episode on that flight the first six or
seven months then finally I broke down
and did one eye because people kept
asking and I'd always said by then I
didn't think it was one but I think I
mentioned the time the first thought
through my head when I heard about that
was I wonder if that could be a Dyson
swarm and I said man probably not for
these reasons so
um that was one of those examples I use
of how people are saying I wish people
wouldn't say that it's alien scientists
don't think it's aliens and in practice
it is almost the fourth thing we all
think about is could this do phenomena
be a sign of uh you know an aorta or
alien live and then you think of all the
reasons why it probably isn't and move
on and I never thought Tabby star could
be Dyson swarm but it did pop in my head
quickly
we have a question from Miami's last
capitalist who is a long time supporter
of the program thank you from Reddit if
a spin bull Hab can increase felt
gravity to a low gravity Moon can it be
used to reduce felt gravity could people
living on a high G Planet feel only one
G and if not are there other methods uh
there are other methods for that you
could do the I think we did the low
gravity train the one time uh where you
put a train around the equatorial planet
in a you know vacuum tunnel like a
hyperloop as well only even lower
pressure and you just have that train
running a loop around there it'd be a
very big train say the size of a small
City and just running around it's big
belt and that's the area that has low
gravity because it's going up but
um you need the same thing on orbital
rings for instance too that you have a
little bit additional acceleration
without up saying the crew as you speed
people up to launch them in the space
faster but um you cannot exactly use
that trick because it's adding gravity
so you think well if I flipped upside
down you know if I could get to add
gravity this way to the outside surely I
could do it the other way and
unfortunately no that's not going to be
how it works you can only add more
gravity with spin but you can decrease
it by the big centrifugal one around the
entire planet uh or by hanging say a
micro black hole overhead so you could
do that I think we talked about that
individual tail forming techniques
episode
um you might have a city on a high
gravity Planet a little money Outpost oh
which you spend at a gigantic
osmium or some other hypodense material
or a black hole
uh we have a comment here from pakirisa
is it possible as many think that we
will have an AI assistant in five to ten
years that would have enough power to
become a companion or a friend and how
do you think that would change society
um
I it's it's gonna be your mileage going
to vary uh chat GPT is obviously a lot
better than when we had say video games
in the 90s but I had characters like
playing video games just the old really
simple response ones uh your little
character stuff like Dragon Quest or
some other game where it's just pre-made
text we could still actually feel kind
of an Infinity to them because you can
feel towards a cat or dogging you don't
have conversations with your catalog I
hope you don't have conversations with
your kind of dog I talk to my cat a lot
but I know it's a one-sided conversation
um he responds but the thing is you
don't necessarily yes he talks to you
quite a lot when he wants to treat she
wants treats that's the key though
I know what my cat is saying it's not
that I can't understand cats speak I I
hear it just fine it's just that it's
not that complicated open this door now
feed me I would like to sit there hello
it's not complicated
um but I complete you've got the
question was now
how will that change society oh yeah
um you know it's it's really popular to
suggest that somewhere down the road you
can have virtual reality or robots so
good that you will just have an Android
companion or unfortunately companion
instead of other humans and that's
possible you know that could actually
get to be fairly normal too
um
and that could either be incredibly
dystopian or just be the same as having
an imaginary friend who's a little bit
more realistic and potentially sane you
know it's the question I guess is is
your imaginary friend or your virtual
friend encouraging you towards good
behavior or is it suggestion you should
burn the house down if it's that kind of
imaginary friend it needs to
be removed if it's the one that just
suggests you have good behavior on
Metals it might be a very good
educational tool for kids and also it
could be very handy for people just to
feel
that they have someone to talk to you
know we think vobo psychology might be
preferable in some cases because you're
not going to feel as hesitant to tell
the robot uh what your problems are
right
um so that could be a genuine
replacement about 10 years the text they
are and again it's what's your level of
suspension of disbelief uh because if
you don't mind that it's fake you just
want to have something to talk to same
as chatty with a bartender and a MMORPG
then it's fine and they're going to get
more sophisticated so I also would
assume in the next five or ten years
that almost all customer service you
talk to will be a robot
uh response on customer service side of
things yeah
scooter GSP other than drones what types
of weapons and devices common to sci-fi
will be the first to be developed
that one
um
allergies it's Ragweed season can I
continue and adopted by militaries in a
major way there's the question I'm gonna
need you to repeat that question other
than drones what types of weapons and
devices common to sci-fi will be the
first to be developed and adopted by
militaries in a major way
um
you know I'm only half jokingly customer
service AI
um because and this is a the big one
there is
um if I can if you have a work customer
service and I did for a little while
when I was in college uh it's a horrible
job at times whereas an AI is very good
for that and you can then resolve like
that you know you have 10 AI talking
people and one that's resolved human
who's expert at their field or whatever
it is gets paid better who you can bring
on once the AI said this is outside my
pay grade let me put you out on my
supervisor
um and with the military there's a lot
of that kind of situation too is and
we're talking about this a little bit in
Fortress Wars next month next next month
um
if you are trying to go now post you
have to have people watching it all the
time and you cannot pay attention all
the time you know there's this um video
that made around psychological
experiment not that long ago where uh
they've got some goals passing
basketballs back and forth on screen you
got two basketballs and they tell you
pay attention and count how many times
they pass the ball so your brain is
trying to count how many times do you
this ball has gotten passed back and
forth I understand I think of looking at
this thing and you know trained Observer
military all that stuff I never even
know this is a passing the ball and I
was trying to count it that a gorilla
walks across the screen
it just walks across when you don't even
see it and then afterwards you say well
if you cut the gorilla just got you
anything else they change the color of
the curtains that people were standing
behind when the players went up and left
he was not paying attention that's a god
who's actually on point paying attention
can still miss stuff like that now if
you have been on guard trip before which
everyone in the military usually has had
the fun pleasure of many times even pay
attention for maybe 20 or 30 minutes
before you start zoning out a bit and
that's why you always have two long gone
at once because you can help each other
stay awake and pay attention and be less
likely miss things AI is great for
something like that though because it
can be helping you to find things but
you're scaring out for abnormalities so
kind of same for drones you're going to
have a lot of surveillance attached to
those drones or to those cameras that is
AI That's busy looking at things and
scanning things and you would never want
to lie just on that that's where you get
that human machine teaming aspect
um when they are not able to catch
things or the stuff that they might miss
you catch that and it's easy for you to
do that you're not completely zoned out
trying to stay the same patch of the
Dead or four or five hours time
we have a super chat from Andre Jones
Thank You Andre I am 40 years old and
I'm going back to college without a
prior degree I'm going for my bachelor's
in physics I had attended school for a
while but I didn't graduate what advice
can you give me
um you know I got a GED too that's one
of the things people don't know this
often not that it's a secret but I
dropped out of school when I was 12. and
I got my GED a few years later and
started college
um so that doesn't need to be any kind
of ball at all if you didn't finish up
high school don't even give that a
second thought
um if you want to go to school for
anything at all
and go ahead and do it but Begin by
deciding first of all you know it always
helps to have a higher IQ intelligence
to go any field especially stem
um
but if you are willing to devote the
time to it yeah why not and if you're 40
you want to change careers this is not
the 1950s or 60s where you expect to
walk in a factory your whole life uh I
don't know if that was ever really the
norm in Civilization outside of when all
of us were far more swimming was about
anyway if you want to change careers
when you're 40 go for it you know I
started the show nine years ago it was
not meant to be a career in any way uh
until maybe six years ago became a job
and I thought I'd be gone a couple of
week Years anyway now I'm kind of
settling in the idea that this might be
basically what I do for my life and I
love the idea but I promise you that I
was not expecting this to be the case 10
years ago or nine years ago in the show
started with that matter let alone
backgrounds of the military and decided
I didn't want to do that as a career
anymore so yes absolutely
um if you all 40 and you decide you want
to change your major so to speak now
absolutely yeah why not go do something
you actually love doing
um think of the first 20 years of your
life especially the first 10 of your
adulthood in your 20s and early 30s as
almost a warm-up and experience grabbing
thing you can use that to give one to
almost anything else you want once you
now know what it is that you're good at
and what you'd like to focus on
absolutely and good luck
hello Arthur family how long before the
um
matter ammo weapons become economically
viable compared to say energy weapons
was it what was it again matter ammo
weapons matter antimatter weapons or
matter ammo weapons well it said ammo
hmm
a hell of we have anti-matter weapons we
got that because that was one of these
shorts for earlier this week which by
the way I know folks are asking I will
put out a compilation of like 20 at a
time after a few months old in a while
but uh I know some people don't really
like to watch the shorts and it'll be
fun to watch this compilation
um I would not expect anti-matter based
ballistic weapons like we talked to that
that shorts antimatter rifles to ever
really be uh the common Norm just
because a Norm just because
um
I don't think we're going to find some
way to really cheaply produce
anti-matter that easily but you do have
a lot of ways you might get really
compact energy and that's
the biggest driving factor is you can
upskill defensive technology with
offensive technology slash your upswing
how you're producing that energy one of
the issues is something like nuclear
weapons for instance there's no way to
take a nuclear bomb use it strictly for
defensive purposes in a tactical sense
obviously strategically they are mostly
defensive weapon
um can't say anything for anti-metal
based weapons as opposed to energy or
metal based weapons like say a railgun
is how do I convert all this energy into
something pushing the bullet that fast
uh something people don't tend to know
but gunpowder is very low energy density
so it's TNT they are not hydrogen
density compared to say gasoline or even
human fat cells right they they are not
that energy intensive but they have
going for them as they convert into
something else really really quick
unless you can use them for pushing
something down a barrel that's not a
mile long so uh storage and production
and that's what it is if you find a fade
to produce energy much more intensely
and store it much more intensely
antimatter otherwise that absolutely
converts into weapon systems at that
point Andrew Murray would like to know
what intriguing scientific Concepts
speculations or theories you feel are
unduly overlooked ignored or under
represented in the present science
fiction and would make for some awesome
stories if properly adapted
oh wow well I mean we have a lot of
those that
that we do talk about in episodes
usually if you hear me going off in a
narrative in one of the episodes it is
because I felt like people have not put
up in sci-fi because otherwise The
Summer's already been a big narrative on
it I would just recommend you that book
uh since that person will usually
written and far better than whatever I
put together
um Concepts that need to be in a lot
more and we have looked at these a lot
it's kind of what the first episode was
about uh all those Mega structures in
space they are getting there though now
that special effects is catching up now
the Adidas are catchy on more you do see
people putting a lot more megastructures
in the science fiction I could
appreciate it being a little bit more
realistic in how they did it the uh the
hollow oath on the moon so the
megastructures in that um
oh I forgot what that movie was called
it was horrible but that's okay uh it
was about the moon hitting the planet
came out last year uh they had great
special effects on that but plot
um
I will also I see a big move away from
using time travel I hate time travel in
in science fiction it's just like a
negative
destroying device but
we don't see much on cloning other than
it's kind of like a bad guy thing if you
were to close or duplicate Somebody
almost any time we talk about mind
uploading uh it's usually imply
someone's gotten completely insane
um and it's not good I'd like to see
more of that representing fiction in a
realistic and sober way you know not
just like oh well this is good after all
but not to you know don't Pence the
other way was like well hear what's evil
and now we're going to appreciate as
good just give a sober honest look at
the pros and cons of it which I guess is
called what we do on the show but I
think a lot of that's missing from
science fiction is to take us topic
matter like that and then try to look at
the ups and downs of it and we see a lot
of recycled material instead and I love
my Space Opera too but it is nice to see
some new Concepts being put in there
Owen Bowen says can you use a tiny black
hole to make gravity on a moon with low
gravity
um I'm sorry one more time a tiny black
hole to make gravity on a moon with low
gravity yep uh one of next well I guess
would be next week's pull episodes uh is
going to be can we terraform the moon
and uh one of the suggestive ways you
would do that is with a black hole you
don't absolutely need to do that but you
can stick around the core
um the first time I came across the idea
was actually an Alistair Reynolds novel
House of sons which did deal with
cloning uh and if I've never recommended
Alistair events to you personally before
go read his books they were amazing but
uh in House of sons they have asteroids
and the and the asteroid belts took a
3008 dude people have his houses on so
someone's put a black hole in the middle
of that asteroid and raised its gravity
up to something they couldn't stand on
and presumably feeding something like
hydrogen or helium which would be the
energy intensive process that could be
the power of the place too but you can
absolutely do that if you can find a way
to make micro black holes and bigger
ones of that so the biggest problem I'd
have there is you'd have to make a
minimum size black hole they could
actually feed hydrogen or helium uh
which would be uh at least the size of
an atom I think realistically and the
only way to do something like that would
probably be the ram to really skinny
long tungsten or ion threads into each
other at like 99.9 of wide speed but
should be doable in theory
you in theory make a mono pull if you
could hide half the polarity via
shutting it off through a wormhole or
another dimension
um
it depends on what kind of Wormhole it
is if we're just talking about like the
classic Sci-fi portal where you stick
your hand through and then your fingers
on the other side yes then you can uh
wormholes in in
the Einstein Rosen Bridge Wormhole that
we all know from sci-fi the one they
always talk about is the realistic
Wormhole uh which they wouldn't call
something but then not actually describe
properly that doesn't really let you
pull tricks like that off so are you
taking Einstein Rosen Bridge won't pull
Edge you drop something down the mouth
of it and it falls down it falls into
one at the bottom you got a portal here
and a portal appeal so the coin falls
down through here pops back up from here
comes back down keeps doing that over
and over again builds up speed right it
should be building a speed is under
Gravity uh especially if you move the
air that was in the way that you could
use as a perpetual motion generator
except that you actually follow the
forces and the calculations on that
you'll see it would not do any such
thing and that's the thing to keep my
other one poles is they are not the
magic portal that we have to portray
them as
um they're just a shortcut they don't
actually you wouldn't be accelerating
more from doing that
um
and so it does depend on how you're
going to be doing that for a monopore
anytime you can actually play around the
dimensionality of space you would have a
chance to potentially make one but
very iffy there's other things you could
do with that we have that episode
warping reality that talks about that a
little bit we have another one of
reality manipulation coming up in a
couple months they're looking at more
do you think that the automated repair
of both infrastructure and consumer
goods is practically sensible with
current technology
um it kind of depends I think what you
would see when we get just a little bit
better with the robots is that you start
seeing the robots you know uh sweep or
you know inside a store inside a
sidewalk or a city on the road can you
do an automated snow plow
um do you want to because it's a
snowplow truck might run you fifty sixty
thousand dollars for the truck and that
uh and that snowplow or more for the
bigger ones that we use for roads and
you got a lot of Maintenance of fuel
being born on that thing and the
question might be are you really saving
much money by putting a robot in there I
suppose just having a person who's a
little bit more versatile and can also
do things like
you know get out and shovel a section
themselves
um or hook up a chain to pull in their
buddies out of the snow when they get
stuck
um
robots for window cleaners robots for
cleaning pools houses that's all coming
it just depends as people figure out how
best to do it in a way that's gonna be
cheap and useful but don't expect that
something to be a huge shift overnight
to all sorts of things when we talk
about robots for house maintenance for
instance it wouldn't be a robot that
went inside and fixed your house it
would be a robot that caught around and
they are and let you know that this or
that board was getting weaked and it
affected mode
or any number of other things like that
which would make it much easier to spot
a problem no it was they are and then it
could just pull up together and say
Here's what you should do to fix that or
who's who you should call I think that's
probably the first step of automated
maintenance we'd expect to see is
Diagnostics Matthew Bowman says hi Sarah
and co-host Isaac read the Fallen Empire
sci-fi Sunday would two empires with
faster than light have an expansion rate
slower than colonizing due to the need
to guard each system before colonizing a
new one
um
that's a hard one to really kind of
speculate on if you're worried that your
enemy can get in there uh without being
detect them because they have FTL and
you have no FTL detection system other
than spaceships they're looking normally
um then you might want to guard them but
why not just gold them with you know 99
absolutely a population and send one
percent on a colony ship to go get the
next planet and build up there in terms
of exponential growth that whenever
you're dealing with exponential growth
in the untapped resources it usually
almost always makes sense to devote a
large portion of resources to that
growth
um once you stop bumping into each other
that changes though you need to spend
more on defensive measures it starts
getting to be more of a pain to actually
colonize because you have uh you know
diplomatic instances hassles competition
things like that and those are what kind
of flat and exponential growth Corps and
we see that in nature for instance
um but with FTL expansion funds it's all
about how does that how does it actually
what's the source of FTL there if it's a
random Wormhole I can pop open any other
place in the universe
um is that I want more I maintain or do
I lose my colonies when I send them
through are they actually being placed
inside a different universe or different
piece of the Multiverse
um is it in a expanding sphere it's
where those things pop out it's just too
dependent on the technology itself
uh body Cosmic says I wonder how far
away we are from mapping out every
object in our solar system including
what's in the Oort cloud
hmm 50 years so uh it's always going to
depend a lot on what actually
is being mapped like oh you're talking
very tiny dots right now we can't really
map anything that's in the general
direction of the or sun L3 Point that's
one on the other side of the sun because
the sun's in the way and we really have
basically nothing that looks there
um you know we occasionally send probes
out there if we turn them around away
from the mission they're doing could do
anything took a peek there
um
we don't have any way to detect anything
golf ball sized you know outside of our
own Orbits for instance right now but
that changes as you put more detectors
up and put more money into it and I
would say it's not really uh we need to
do a science thing it's more one of
those you have to build the
infrastructure you have to be willing to
vote the money and infrastructure to
detect those things and I think that you
would reach a point where people said I
do not need to detect anything smaller
than a Buick and that becomes your
economic threshold of taxpayers say look
we don't need a detector grid against
that chance a golf ball hits Earth or a
golf ball hits a space station with some
asteroid miles around we'll just have
insurance yeah and then that's that's
the basic living that Society
um because it would be a very common
incident so I would say if you mean
things that are the size of mountains
absolutely the next 50 years even out to
I don't have a good question I'll say
the old Cloud but
yeah I'll pass the Kuiper belt uh things
beneath that that's just is economically
viable politically required do it so if
your enemy has something that's the size
of a basketball that could ruin your
space stations you build detector was
able to see that basketball
uh
all right Christian corello has a super
chat which would be more efficient or
faster for a spacecraft an Orion drive
that uses anti-matter bombs or a
straight up antimatter Drive
um it depends what we mean by efficient
if it's anti-metal catalyzed fusion
um then probably that because that's
going to be a lot cheaper uh with in
terms of using weight loss antimatter if
I have a hypothetical store just
anti-metal right
um what I'm actually going to do is put
a beer Solid collector on the front of
the thing and store my huge chunk of
antimatter like it was Rocket Fuel and I
will suck particles in as they come by
and Advance them into antimatter and use
that as my propellant uh right behind
the ship as an antimatter Vine Drive
being fueled by that collected space uh
particles that we're grabbing through
and so you get twice your bang for your
buck and something that could do about
should be able to do 90 of wide speed a
little bit better
um
as to just a anti-metal bomb going out
behind the thing kind of the same Zone
it's just not going to be quite as good
as we can get half your fuel or mass
energy from stuff you're passing out
along the way
um
it's definitely gonna do better than the
regular nuclear bomb though even Fusion
devices because again even antimatter
catalyzed Fusion or Fusion bombs are
just way more efficient and compact you
don't have as much
equipment being needed to set the bomb
off
don't forget your sunscreen says what do
you think the chance is that an
inhabited Alien Planet would support
multiple related intelligent species
like us and Neanderthals
um if we're talking specifically like us
and the NFL is exactly possible you
could have several of them on the same
play at the same time because they're
very closely related
um
it depends on how that plays geography
setup
um if you assume they have ice bridges
that popped up for like a million year
span and then they all got separated
about the same time they discovered fire
right which would be the same week was
like a million years ago you have very
Divergent
um very Divergent species by then uh
even compared to us in the infos who are
probably relatives uh and that's just a
question of
did that past geography and and yeah and
geology supports that much separation
and if you imagine say I don't know five
continents that uh connected to one or
another through Bridges either on the
North or South side of the thing uh by
that pole then yeah you could have say
five different species each of those who
all wore no closer layer than us to the
NFLs or more
Brian abayer has a question going back
to your underwater settlements video
would underwater settlements help
accelerate humans to fully accomplish
type 1 civilizations
um I don't know if I'd say underwater
settlements would help that too much uh
we will talk about the Fortress words
where you protect yourself by living
underwater
um
I would say probably not really
particularly advantageous in terms of
becoming more K1 because again it's
about energy access and there's not that
much model energy deep down to some
geothermal energy but internally on the
surface right where the oceans at the
surface there you have access to all
that sun energy which is like three
quarters of the sun energy in the planet
so floating rafts or solar panels on top
of the ocean yes
um underwater ones not so much
Sono Bello is chat
bot essentially Robo psychology
um hmm you mean any sense of Susan
Calvin uh so the old Isaac asthma of
robot books that got us all the robotic
laws um featured a character called
Susan Calvin she was the robo
psychologist for U.S robots the uh guys
read all the patents on robot technology
and she would go and figure out what was
going on with the robots thinking when
they seem to be breaking those laws or
malfunctioning and she was the first and
and uh only good verbal psychologist
um fascinating character by the way I
recommend those stories they've still
had up pretty well as far as you don't
care if they talk about vacuum tubes and
positronic brains
um
all we basically doing is Robo
psychology when we do these interactions
with chat GPT or vice versa I'd say so I
mean my own experiences with the chat
GPT even even with four because I did
grab a thing for that just recently is
that it's good for coming up with
episode prompt ideas like I'll say list
me 50 things about the moon people care
about they'll give me a big long list
it's been a nice little format than
Google and sometimes I'll try if yeah
what do I want to do about the moon I'll
say well I know what I want to do for
the main episode but I'd like some sub
topics I might want to like brainstorm
yeah I could Google those and see what
people come up with on the moon well I'm
gonna ask them that chat gbto and tell
me you know here's 10 things that we've
called you know co-leaders people being
interested in
um it's not a conversation though and
um
and you know I don't really know how
much better that would get in terms of
psychology but do you need to have a
conversation with your psychologist to
detect if it's uh going crazy uh if
you're going crazy because it might be
that a robot chat GPT might be very good
at uh detecting these things from you
even though you're not having a
conversation with it you just feel like
you will on the flip side of that if we
are actually doing psychology on
potential robots again there's nothing
there to to do it chat gbd has no
personality is not alive it's
unconscious maybe 10 15 years now it
would be but right now it's just more
language-based form of Google basically
and we are at our break but I would hope
that we'll get a few more questions in
the chat for the second half so drop
them in get your drink in your snack
we'll see you shortly we'll see you soon
so while we're on break it's a good time
to get more questions in the moderators
for part two a guy asked about the pan
cosmoyo Theory last live stream and
could not give an answer as I wasn't
sure what it was but it sounded familiar
and I had seen it before and dismissed
it and never dug into it till now it is
pretty new and there is more there than
I first give credit for and I'm a bit on
the fence on if I should make an episode
out of it and probably will but the four
minute summary is that is posing that
space settlement is highly constrained
by ecosystem and points to high
improbability of finding your planet or
other body where our existing ecosystem
could be decently replicated and that
space sediment like domes or stations
are too small for a true ecosystem the
channel regulars can guess why I shrug
that off if you need more space for an
ecosystem build bigger and I never
assume any small ecosystem needs to be
complete to Earth levels or to be stable
for more than a spaceship's flight time
and I tend to assume you just keep
building bigger until you hit that
threshold now I should emphasize that
the paper which I'll link in the episode
description is more focused on
discussing the thermodynamics of
ecosystems and defining levels of
sustainability in ecosystems but that
allow the online discussion of it is
more a Fermi Paradox context and that's
where I first saw it it's a great paper
about the part I particularly liked were
the levels of sustainability And
discussing what they meant for the
settlement stability and crisis
resistance and if you remember the
expanse where they're on Ganymede and
calamities varying from books to TV
caused the minimal and artificial
ecosystem to collapse than that is in
this vein level one is our classic Space
Opera planet where there's some
differences with Earth but gravity and
sunlight and other factors permit a
stable ecosystem that needs no further
inputs after initial settlement to stay
around for Millions if not billions of
years I would personally guess there's
fewer than a billion plants like that in
the Galaxy maybe even tens of millions
as we don't really know how narrow the
eye of the habitable needle is that we
need to thread but we have options like
immense solar mirrors and shades and
mega domes for helping to widen that
needle level two is more of the category
we think of for space settlement on this
channel where some degree of alteration
genetic or cybernetic to the people and
some organisms would be needed for a
completely stable ecosystem or you would
need some supply chain to keep it going
and this is a potentially brittle
ecosystem as you are constantly bringing
in outside resources which represents a
supply chain that accident or Warfare
could disrupt and same for some large
piece of Eco engineering Hardware like a
single huge solo shade at L1 for Venus
level 3 goes further in that there's not
enough room or energy in the system to
avoid Cascade failures and I'd use the
example of an asteroid mining base far
from the Sun using a parabolic dish to
focus light and for heat photosynthetic
light and energy if something smashes
that dish then they could freeze to
death before they might repair it
level 4 something like the existing
International Space Station that must
have a strong umbilical cord to Earth
just to survive temporarily and which
has no plausible scenario for
independent existence and this would
apply to most Moon and mars-based
designs as well as a place like mcmoto
station in Antarctica now again there's
a lot more discussion of cascade failure
and power sources and growth blight
diversity loss and Cascade failure
hypothesis and probably enough for a
good episode on the topic it's
interesting context of Fermi Paradox
discussions like the Aurora effect but
as I feel we often demonstrate on the
show certain Technologies make level 1 2
and 3 ecosystems possible in virtually
every condition and offer extreme
options for redundancy if you are on a
distant asteroid 10 times further from
the Sun than Earth than having several
thousand small airbag dishes
concentrating light for you and me
packed up waiting deployments if needed
and a nuclear reactor of visual Fusion
whatever you've got gives you power
redundancy and as long as you have that
a good library of knowledge and tech
specs and some decent Automation and 3D
printing probably including DNA printing
from an archive of organisms then you
likely can't keep your level 2 and 3
ecosystems from undergoing Cascade
failure the takeaway would be that you
are militarily and diplomatically
vulnerable to anyone in position to
stress those factors especially if they
are more robust to them than you are
so a great topic and a good question
from last month and now let's get back
to more of your questions from this
month
and we're back
so we have any more questions coming in
during the uh the break yes and we have
a few from before that trying to get to
here as well we have valderg if
primitive life is confirmed to live
under europa's icy shell should we rush
in to examine it or ease into it and not
give it shock uh well it will have been
sitting there for I have no idea how
long safely underneath the eyes so we
probably don't need to rush in to do
anything we can take our time once you
know it's there it's not like it
is honestly very unlikely any print of
alien life or even complex alien life
that we would find that doesn't actually
have technology to share with us because
it's Advanced is going to make any
massive breakthroughs in our knowledge
right away it's it will come as a
knock-on effect but some of those things
you have to really race after like we
must right now dissect this alien
species to find out what tasty Secrets
it has inside that improves our life's
um but
you know taking it easy and careful on
the way in to make sure you have lots of
samples before you accidentally wreck
the biosystem or you know invade it with
something or
um kill everything it's usually a good
idea because to be honest and we had
this come at the top of quarantine
planets once you start poking in there
you're gonna start doing permanent
long-term change we've got change as
opposed to damage but it's not going to
stay the same
Terrell says I just wanted to say that
you're the best I've been listening for
years and your videos are like
educational meditation oh awesome I like
that description of that so and our fan
Albert Jackson says hi Isaac it's good
to be here I'm having eye surgery soon
and with a focus on AI right now in the
medical applications where do you expect
the convergence between those two to go
in the next few decades
kind of that same thing diagnostic is
one of the big ones for what you would
do is um
you've got scans on MRI where no doctor
could have a spot all the stuff as fast
as the AI can and it picks up little
cancers or tumors that the doctors would
miss same thing here on something like
an eye that's so sensitive and
detectable damage Distortion that we
really cannot you know it's and good
luck by the way on that surgery I hope
it Liam works for you very well but
um one of my longest winning fans
says what are the challenges and risks
of using a plane of reflective material
at the L1 LaGrange point to reduce the
amount of sun that the Earth receives
um challenges is just trying to find a
way to get that material off the moon
and Manufacturing out though that's
that's probably the best place to do it
um I know I've weapons blowing up an
asteroid they're like getting a new
Earth asteroid there was a stop Gap
measure but that would not really be the
best approach it's just you could do
that
um
manufactured thin sales and out there
well this shouldn't be an issue you
might send out something to look more
like an inflated bubble
um just can't hold its shape there
easier I know how they sudden with the
best method would be but you don't
really have to worry about
repairing them you just send them out
their own clusters in that area and this
is jungle L1 and as the Albedo of itself
to drop you send in more you just keep
adding more to it until you decide to
clear it all out soon you want to get
rid of sun I for one think we lack a lot
of sun in our area we could use a little
walk right and that is like an orbital
meal for instance is let's say I take an
Obama that is currently intercepting
light that will be landing on the Sahara
Desert and I tip that up to scandavia uh
which may want some additional sunlight
sometimes the year and it say it's
ghetto's temp set it light off into
space again so you're getting you know a
little less light in the Sahara a little
more light on on Norway and a little
less light of wall hitting the planet
for a lower temperature
um or alternatively you might have
another meal that does the exact
opposite just adds to it you have a lot
of options for what you can do there and
to me it's not really a question of you
know um how economical this is right now
per se or is this a wise idea it's more
like when are we going to that's not not
an if because it just makes too much
sense not to put that into play
um because again you could talk about
that stuff accurately enough that would
just be warming up your house you know
so why not we have an interdimensional
question about tentacles and extra limbs
do you think they could be useful
um I'm just going to tell you that if
you ever come by a portal into another
universe and there's tentacles coming
out of it
go run way away run away so
um it may be useful you should find out
from a distance
um they could be very handy for catching
children doing naughty things yeah
I think um yeah it makes me think of
Rick and Morty um but I I mean I don't
know what would be more useful in terms
of like hands versus tentacles as a
species that was developing technology
you can make a case for either one but
uh if you're seeing squids or octopuses
and actually they're very
dexterous in certain ways uh at the same
time I'll keep the hands I think you
always have the options to be like a
mechan dendrite which they have in uh in
40K where you got the extra arms out
behind you like uh Dr Octopus from from
Spider-Man those could be tentacles too
but I would say by and large
um
anything that's interdimensional and
tentacular nature is probably best
avoided
um wow
uh let's come back to that in a minute
um
we have a comment that chat Bots will be
used for advertising real soon they will
talk to you pretend they like you and
try to sell you something oh I think
they probably already do that's probably
some in the chat right now we always had
robots before so that's true they'd like
to stick around there's the underground
folks I can't remember their names
outside the head from Stargate Atlantis
but that's that's a TV show but if they
did have books out for what I can't what
they call the humans uh they're very
paranoid and they have uh Chief Miles
O'Brien uh cool media as they are as
their main leader and that's a very fun
group of people I just kind of the code
I can't think of the other person that
has much Subterranean living as a major
aspect of it though
Matt van griezman thank you for your
super chat I am 42 will we live to see
luvor launch before we die what launched
luvor l-u-v-o oh yeah the USA one
um you know we had this with James Webb
um I'm gonna say yes because we did
finally get lodged and I forgive James
Webb for being that delayed because of
just how use what's been now it's up
there but uh and and because it really
was a whole Wonder thread that you don't
get that to where it needed to be and
and to open but um yeah we will I think
probably
probably but you know if you if you're a
smoker I'd give that up uh anything else
about shorten your lifespan you know
just if you really want to see you get
the data from the forest I would say I
just turned 43 and I would say 42 was an
awesome year and I thought about staying
42 for a few more decades but then they
could complaining about how you'll
falsifying your ID and you know no so
now I'm 43 you know like it's just fine
Stephen Sullivan is this Universe with
Heisenberg and playing
possible to be certain about exceeding
the speed of light is it possible to be
uncertain about exceeding the speed of
light
um
like no but yes uh it gets kind of
tricky at the quantum level
um
so one thing to keep in mind is is if I
think it go it will say doesn't anything
move faster speed of light and you've
probably heard me in the FTL series say
that it's a bad thing to call it the
first thing that move to that speed we
found was light but what actually moves
that speed the maximum speed is
causality cause and effect so things
move faster speed of light away from us
almost everything in the universe is
moving away from this fashion speed of
light that's that humble expansion rate
you get about 13 14 billion light years
away from us which is not the edge of
the universe since it's 46 billion light
years away uh once you get past that 13
14 billion year marker uh everything is
going faster than the speed of light
away from us
um but there's no information
transmitting between us and them and
that's the key you can outstand cause
and effect or information
um and at the quantum scale you can
pretty much supplement almost any of
that anyway but
um
trying to leave a sane way to explain
this Quantum doesn't translate well
um yes you could locally violate the
speed of light but it would you wouldn't
actually have passed the information not
about that that's about the rest we can
really do on that one
um I think I already asked him like
explaining Quantum no I hate it isn't
that what we started talking about
Quantum uh Quantum Resurrection yeah it
was like a second happy chat when we
were younger no we were talking about uh
brain function Quantum brain yeah yeah
with Oracle
which is oh no nebula
um so yeah for anyone was curious
because I saw that went in the chat uh
was it with Sayo and I when we met was
like love at first Naughty sight and the
answer was no we were casual friends for
like five or six years and then we had a
really good conversation
um with horn my friend Jason Keeler over
a game of acquire that uh that led me
doing the episode uh the uh for me
Paradox Solutions of sorry Dyson dilemma
episode that was the first season one
episode uh where we just try to talk
about expansion on the universe and then
like I was a year later what shoto's
house that we would say about uh the
concept of whether or not there was any
Quantum effects at the at the uh mental
level so and then after that we got to
be closer friends but that was like five
years in between
I I really want to complement the mods
on doing so well usually pulling out the
questions but I'm having to scroll
through them I always get to a great
question and then something gets dropped
in and I lose it it's one of the reasons
why it's really good to have the model
is help you out on that and Bobby thank
you is it's very hard on the chat
Windows of these things to actually keep
track of them all it is actually a chat
window of instance over on my screen
which is the side here but uh I can't
really keep up with it and talk and find
the questions and answers yeah it keeps
bouncing around I think I asked this one
and
uh let's see I don't think I had this
one yet the shimaro is it possible to
build something like the Epstein drive
from the expanse
um
so as best as I can tell and I know
there's some the science the Epstein
type things but as best I can tell from
description the Epstein drive and from
function is a fusion torch Drive uh
which is kind of like the ones that
um lose the love and Highland had
discussed a bit and yet even though you
have a set amount of fuel and you're
basically in a ridiculously high rate of
fusion uh out the back of it and
that allows you to actually pull off an
acceleration rate of 1G the whole time
uh it's possible it absolutely is
possible but we gotta keep in mind when
we're talking about Fusion is
you're needing the energy is involved
not just in the core of the Sun to make
it happen but the core of a super dense
Santa Monica Supernova that's the kind
of rate of fusion you need that to be
useful if I take one ton one physical
ton of solar matter I can run a light
bulb off it in terms of how much energy
it's producing new energy it's very hot
so it has lots to give off
um inside really powerful
giant Stars where it's fusely a thousand
times faster it starts to match a normal
um power generally or like a gas engine
uh ticket for spaceships that's when you
need to be having the kind of Stellar
densities that we had that we had in the
cause of supernova or like we had in the
first couple minutes after the big bang
so you really need something very
intense to do that and that's I think
what people tend to miss about that but
that's what you have the fusion torch
drive and you have something like that
you can't have that anywhere near any
material so it's got to be completely
magnetically shoved out and that's where
you get those radios on spaceship from
the excess energy hitting you but
realistically I don't think we'd ever
see something like that but it is
physically possible yes and I think
YouTube announce again the spaceship
drives they have in the Revelation space
series he's best known for do run by
sending a war back in time to an
alternate universe I believe to avoid
causality arrows to that enforcement of
the of the uh half the Big Bang so
that's a good option for spaceship Drive
I arcan light hey Isaac big fan and long
time listener here's back from the days
before you upgraded your mic
I was wondering what nation or group you
have money on putting boots on Mars
first
um us or SpaceX although I would
actually guess when one of those things
gets well planned it'll be some kind of
joint mission that NASA was putting up
most of the money for uh maybe paying
SpaceX to do
and that yes well Essa and Jack saw were
both actually pretty much money into as
well it kind of depends on the political
situation of time whether or not folks
like China or Russia or India would want
to joining us something like that but
nothing like that's gonna happen
overnight it's gonna take a lot of
promise
and I just can't see any of the other
countries that have space programs not
wanting to be symbolically involved and
that's just makes them more of the Mario
so my guess is that would probably would
be an international effort uh but
probably a lot like the spatronization
is nowadays we have a few principal
parties that do most of heavy lifting
Dexter says on the subject of cosmic
radiation protection could we use the
concept behind meteorite protection two
layers separated by distance with
radiation resistant materials and cosmic
rays yeah I mean one of the issues you
have with the radiation shielding is
that some types of radiation should you
actually take things that are
radioactive that will pass right through
US normally without causing damage and
um catch them and turn them into a more
lethal form of radiation so the Bullet
which will pass through you and a common
example a lot of bullets
um you think well fastable like a needle
bullet you'll see in sci-fi they got
little tiny bullets those want to hold
you like a machine gun something with
things the size of a needle that will
move against Hypersonic speed all day
long and well not all day long but you
could hit them repeatedly and wouldn't
do any serious damage just because it's
once you hold that tiny into them
um but if it breaks or fragments then
suddenly becomes a huge problem if it
does it inside you and that kind of
happens with some of the radiation
protection it causes some mediation
would just go right through you and
ignore you to break up and damage stuff
more so you mean multi-layer approaches
was it you followed up on that first
layer redirects the ready a bit and the
second layer absorbs question yeah and
that's generally the way you'd want to
do that would be to have that you'd have
multiple layers and I don't think it
would even be one or two layers you
might have a powerful magnet amount of
the ship that helps deflect a lot of the
ones that are ionized away uh and then
you have really anything you could
possibly reflect or deflect or redirect
with then absorb and then another layer
beyond that to absorb the most likely
byproducts that might come off too and
by General default it's going to be
doing moisture lifting with water or
hydrogen hydrogens are great absorbable
so is water for the same reason and you
need to have them because hydrogen's
usually can be your fuel but if it isn't
it's be water and you have that along
with you your excess water supply so you
put that in the hole of the ship and
that way when you start venting because
your multiple wave with layers you don't
lose anything all that valuable and it's
doing that job for you since even the
cancer radiation
what do you think about harvesting
geothermal vent energy or underwater
underwater volcanoes
um yeah we talked about that in the
episode accessing the Earth's core which
core so I was still working on those
oils right now um
was it like five years ago already maybe
four it was the last one of our Earth
2.0 series and you can do it
um geotherm was Never Gonna Give You
huge amounts of power compared to the
Sun but there's enough power audio on
the planet that you really just want to
decide where you're getting it from to
fuel things and
geotherm was a good approach to doing it
in a lot of cases uh especially because
it's just moving heat around and so it's
great for heating and cooling purposes
specifically
um
but would you use something like every
active hot geothermal Source event and I
think maybe
it it just depends on how accessible it
actually is to tap I think in a lot of
cases you'd have more infrastructure for
it and this is
a key thing to remember about power
generation it's not about how readily
available the fuel is it's more about
how easy is the Machinery to maintain
and pay for per watt so for instance we
say well soon we'll have electricity so
cheap that it'll be pennies WBO per
kilowatt hours I know the original
expression is too cheap to be metered
because it would still be really
expensive to maintain the electric
infrastructure all those wires right
that's a lot of the cost and that's not
going anywhere
um but you no longer care how much
energy you're putting through them
anymore because it's too cheap to
produce except that Fusion reactor has
material that's made out of that you
know geothermal vent access has material
that's made out of that has to access
USB or payout Etc which is deep
underwater in seawater and Nexus on the
molten and that's probably gonna do
horrible things to its lifetime similar
to putting next to a powerful gamma-ray
source for instance
writes and thank you for your Super Chat
thank you for everything you do my wife
and I love your work very much wanted to
ask if you're familiar with Peter F
Hamilton's Commonwealth universe and if
so what your thoughts are on the
possibility of bionics okay so
um
uh it's a great series I think Peter
Hamilton is probably better known for
his uh neutronium Alchemist walk but I
thought the Commonwealth Saga was
probably my favorite one I'm trying both
the one character is uh he starts out as
kind of more of a secondary one he's the
father of one of the female protagonists
that uh we first made by canon in his
name right now
um but great series if you haven't read
it or let's do an audiobook particularly
it's narrated by John Lee who is my
favorite audiobook narrator
um definitely worth the time I think
Judas Unchained and Pandora's star in
the opposite order because Pandora store
is the first one just great books The
Voyage series afterwards also pretty
good
um but in terms of the bionics they are
there there they have the ability to um
DH people I think you get treated
usually a therapy attack or something
like that for some period of time you
come out looking like you 20. and so
everybody does that because it's cheap
enough that everybody can do that
um Quality might vary but you get to do
that's right
um and uh so people go back in they get
re-bloomed and then they need to replace
their bionics and things like that
because they necessarily survive the
process as well so people have a lot of
tattoos Electro tattoos things like that
little cybernex or augmentation and that
varies over the course of series
um I don't think that that would be I'm
trying what specifically was that's
one of the characters we see Nigel I
can't was full name right now
uh he has a whole bunch of these
basically genetically engineered
augmentations instead of cybernetically
engine ones basically some kind of
implant or like an improved hulch might
get things like that that all of a
similar nature of cybernetics but still
organic I think there'd definitely be a
lot of people who do things like that so
that's always the concern there is if
you're not going to be comfortable
having say I have a biotic eye are you
happy with a genetically engineered eye
and I suspect that you have a lot of
people who are good with both and a lot
of people were not happy with either so
Donnie prox is it possible to make A
bank's orbital ring with known current
technology
uh Banks orbital
um
so the orbital Rings we usually discuss
they go around one planet and um they
don't really have any spin on them that
has to do with um centrifugal force
repeat approach
A banks orbro is
uh don't call me a number like this I
think it's either a million miles or 1.7
million kilometers in radius or diameter
and every every individual planetary
gravity and daylight has Zone unique
combination so there'd be one size that
used for moles one for Earth one for
Jupiter Etc
um
you can produce these things by using
active support uh similar to how you do
an orbital ring but basically what
you're doing is you're putting another
bigger ring on the outside of it that
magnetically pushes up against it so it
can spin at whatever way it needs to to
produce gravity at 1G which is really
fast and instead of being ripped apart
by the materials not be able to hold
together because you can't make anything
strong enough that that's under known
physics that's not made of something
like magnetic monopoles instead of being
pushed up from behind or below by a
bigger non-votating ring underneath we
did talk about that I think in our ring
boards episode which looked at the
bigger ring words as well as the banks
orbital which is in between that size
and that is allowed under known physics
and Engineering doing it it'd probably
be very very very very hard to do but it
is it is purely possible yeah
um
with the questions now
well let's see here's a question from
sabaki when talking about uplifting
animals how would someone go about doing
it and what would be the reasons that
you would give a higher intelligence or
also a humanoid body
would you give them a higher
intelligence or also a humanoid body so
we have three basic types of uplifting
and um for those of you know the poll
from last week we'll be doing an episode
on uplifting and whether or not it's
ethical uh in early January I believe
and between now and then I have to make
a point talking to David Brynn about it
so David Brynn is the one who wrote The
Uplift Saga kind of brought the idea of
uplifting more into play uh and uh he's
one of those people who's both a really
good scientist that a good Sci-Fi writer
by the way and I've had the incentive
pleasure to be able to if you uh you
have a friendship within the last year
or so and he is a just a support thinker
so I think I probably want to touch base
with him a little bit more on that topic
before I do that episode but we have
three types of uplifting you have
neurological uplifting which is where I
I mess with your brain to make you
smarter you have technological uplifting
which is like the stuff you're not
allowed to do in Star Trek where you
give some civilization of Primitives the
uh you know a nuclear bomb right
um and then you have biological
uplifting which would be oh sorry
physiological uplifting which is where I
might make a dolphin that was already
intelligent and give them my hand so
they could use technology
um those are your three types and
they all have different problems with
them in terms of when or why you might
want to do them but any of them could
potentially be viable I I think I'm
automatically saying that are going to
be probably technological empathy at all
I've never understood why I have
something small enough to have
technology but not have to give it to
them you know it's it's a very few of us
have discovered new science or
technology and no one not even Einstein
has managed to invent as much technology
as the rest of the planet combined as so
you'll benefit me from other people's
scientific knowledge and Endeavor I'm
not sure why someone who comes from a
technology more primitive Technologies
uh civilization would somehow not be
able to as well but that's just my
personal views on that I don't agree the
Star Trek on things like that but the
others are horrible because
is it really fair to take a dog and make
it smaller and say well now now you're
intelligent and you're talking about
Rick and Morty audio I think that's the
second episode of the show they look in
there to turn out well and then do I
have the right to take you and add
something to you like a new hand
um we will talk about tentacles earlier
and would you like if someone came by
and grafted on some tentacles to use so
you could more easily use
interdimensional portal technology for
instance I think the yes that would
probably be no
um but
will we do it I'm sure we both cats and
dogs or something
um you can argue already doing in a very
slow pace
um it's probably by selectively breeding
for more intelligent species of them
um
I know it's a tricky topic we'll Explore
More in that episode
I'm super chat if easily produced room
temperature semiconductor was discovered
today how would it affect the space
industry
um
it really does make things like Opera
Rings or live stream Loops a lot more
appealing to try to walk on because
right now one of the big problems to
them is is that cost of energy issue
um the flip side of course you still
need a good magnetic shielding uh
technology for that new metal is good
but not that great it's not exactly
cheap to make
um that's the best magnetic shooting
material we have is Moo metal
um
I'm not sure what the most obvious
application of superconductors the space
would be in the short term
um
magnetic confinement for a fusion
reactor proper Bloom so uh it'll be very
good for rail guns to shoot material
back from safe from the Moon to here but
again there's there's steps along the
way and I don't know what those would be
that you'd most immediately find that
useful for
economic boom that's what it is when he
gets around to it you need at least
energy cheaper or easier uh to make move
or transmit has the advantage of making
space easier to do just because the more
industry might you got the more
production you've got the cheaper
everything is do or the easier
everything is due just by sheer Brute
Force so super chat and comment from
Michael porzio I love the show many
thanks
thank you
and scrolling down here
I had a couple more the AI has donated
to the channel I see is that so
Danny prox Super Chat is it possible to
move Venus and Mars to the same distance
from the Sun that the Earth is assuming
you had them evenly spaced out from each
other
um not just three
um
so
I don't think you knew what Kepler was
up with just three it wouldn't be stable
you would have
no uh you need at least six I think with
the chemical rosette so if you have an
orbital path uh and it helps that
they're the same mass by the way uh
that's a big circular or close to
circular orbital path if you stick
things in there 60 degrees off from each
other on a 360 degree circle you will
put them all in each other's LaGrange
four and five points and that becomes a
stable system at that point in time
especially if they are of similar mass
stable for given value of stable it can
be the things in the first place you can
make the course Corrections that are
needed to prevent manual drift
um a chemicals that could potentially
have thousands of things in orbit path
like that so one thing you might do
instead of moving in Venus or Mars they
are and you could just move them to
better orbital paths for just being warm
without portobia is too much what you
might do instead is say take Jupiter or
pulse and put it inside a whole bunch of
hollow shells that you tear off from the
tops of and that all those were at
roughly Earth's distance from the Sun in
the circle and now you've got a hundred
shell wards that uh on your off that
we'd all live on instead so okay all
right I'm going to try a lightning round
because unfortunately we are running out
of time and
a few more uh super chats that I'd like
to at least be able to fit in on this
episode Jeff D thank you for your super
chat over a year ago there was an
announcement about a neutron star with a
solid surface how is that possible and
how can they determine that
um solid is kind of
not specifically doing something that
dense remember neutron stars is dense
the atomic nuclei so atoms are a
thousand times less dense than that and
uh very solid when you push against them
so it's thousands times denser than a
normal matter would be that's why I talk
about neutronium all while being cool
and I guess it would just be an
implication that wasn't moving much
there was very little shown on the
surface
Audrey
that's probably missed
Misty balloons and a Super Chat you're
very welcome sorry we butchered your
name
all this physics and sci-fi do you read
or read or what fantasy oh yeah well I
think I probably do more fancy than
sci-fi something else
um my favorite actual writer writer
period right now these days is Brandon
Sanderson so and he does some sci-fi
theme stuff but mostly fancy if you have
not read mistborn uh or wheel of times
were my favorite let's see you finish
that series up I love Wheel of Time the
the books I'm not thrilled about the
show
raccoon thank you for your Super Chat do
you think a K3 could use its extra
energy to create matter and new star
systems to inhabit
um yeah I could definitely condense
nebulae into new stylus for instance or
into a fuel supply of infusion reactors
or black hole economies
um making a new matter yes they could do
it a K1 could probably do it it's just
run a particle collider or pull a bunch
of corksport you know there are ways to
make new matter out of energy It's
Tricky but it's doable
crossover Maniac thank you for your
Super Chat how much is heat radiation or
power rate limitation Factor infusion or
antimatter propulsion doesn't it take a
specific power of gigawatts per kilogram
to accelerate to even 1G for an
Interstellar Drive yeah it's it is on
order like a gigawatt pool I was
kilogram or ton but it's huge if you
want to maintain one G that's a little
bit non-specific so for the rocky types
I'm not going to be happy with that
number but that's about what it works
out to be the laser cell or Photon
rocket uh you can do it a lot lower
power if you'll put it through other
matter instead like antimatter
feudalized anti-metal catalase Fusion
will be much better thrust from those
hydrogen particles rating
um but heat radiation is huge on
something like that and the key is have
a very reflective substance so you're
not absorbing any of it that's that's
the most important part it's why I like
laser thrust because we can make laser
beams and things that will reflect off
uh at better than 99.99 silver meals so
that helps a lot if you're trying to
keep your heat down chat GPT 4.2 thank
you for your Super Chat do you think the
sky hook infrastructure is the way to go
um in the short term I'd love it if we
actually had any good Hypersonic space
uh you know space planes uh in the long
term I think skyhooks probably clutter
the uh orbital Lanes a little bit too
much to ever be handy for like a very
like a K1 civilization they'd want to
switch over to space Towers or Oprah
rings short 12 yes though last question
I'm going to try to not butcher this
person's name again they were kind
enough to give a second Super Chat Andre
sidrinko
in near-term Exploration what about
social and physiological implication
people tend to miss forests fields and
seas or oceans or even food could be a
deal breaker for people's mental health
what's your opinion on the topic
um so when we were at the isdc last last
year we uh Sarah and I both we've met a
fellow named Logan
and we had a great time chatting about
all sorts of things then and I asked if
um help because he's psychologist on on
what was the things of a space travel
they were hard and he sent me a list of
like a hundred known uh psychological
issues that rise on the space station
that were entirely normal or not space
related alone and even more than I'll
just like unique to space and that's why
we did episode staying sane in space is
because
it's insane literally pardon the pun how
hostile spaces to comfortable living
just being in that environment so
there'll be huge problems trying to make
that more livable I think we can do it
it's probably no worse than living on a
submarine and people do that we've had
people in space for over a year at the
time they came back sane but yeah you
need to especially talking about like
not using the cream of the crop from you
know NASA's astronaut pool when we talk
about amazing families yes you need to
have that looked into in depth and you
need to be ready for really boring
resources into handling it because it's
not going to turn out to be a super easy
issue I don't think
putting the
questions now it just now downloaded all
it all of them for me it had been
blocking them out
so more technical plans we always have
there's any more questions that that I
think wraps us up for today thank you
okay oh anyway thank you so much for
joining us we will be here again next
week for our next live stream
next week next month sorry next month
for live stream this upcoming week
though we have our usual episode coming
on Thursday which I cannot remember what
that is
but it'll be a good one oh it's have
space suit will travel it's our Highland
one so um it's uh now it's actually
gonna be a fun one there's a lot of
narrative in that one so join us then
for half spacesuit will travel on
Thursday and find out all about the
windows of trying to be a lone traveler
going through the Galaxy until next time
and we'll see you then have a great
thank you for joining us for another
monthly live stream if we missed any of
your questions feel free to put them in
the comments on the episode and we'll
see you on Thursday but if you don't
want to wait you can check out any of
this month's recent episodes or see our
bonus content over on nebula at
go.nebula.tv slash Isaac Arthur as
always thanks for watching and have a
great week
