this episode is brought to you by
brilliant
it's great to occasionally get away from
it all but what if some people really
really really needed to get completely
away from absolutely all
[Music]
so a pair of conversations that have
come up on our show often are how you
hide spaceships or civilizations and how
civilizations would look if they are
principally fleet-based we explored both
in detail in our episodes nomadic
space-based fleets and the fermi paradox
hidden civilizations but we never really
discussed this combined notion a
civilization on the run trying to stay
quiet and escape pursuit
this is much akin to what we see from
the battlestar galactica franchise
original or reboot and the coins from
mass effect but i wanted to bring some
more realism into the concept
that's where we get our title for today
escaping the galaxy because as we'll see
as we examine the issue that almost has
to be your long-term solution it's also
a good excuse for us to discuss the
logistics of launching across the
interactive void with no intent of
returning but surviving to rise
elsewhere
as usual we'll stick to inside known
signs for today's discussion which means
no ftl or magic cloaking drives the
former at least is not disadvantaged for
flight either after all if someone kicks
your butt so decisively you're willing
to flee for centuries at a minimum odds
are they have the same or better
technology as you especially when you're
in flight to not really any position to
be building lots of labs and research
facilities
outside of science fiction while stress
and necessity can often lead to
breakthroughs and innovation very little
new science gets done during chaos and
very little solid engineering and
infrastructure develops
there are plenty of real world examples
of genius polymaths who made tons of
discoveries and an advanced spacefaring
civilization might have a lot of
post-humans with mind documentation but
your enemies should have these too and
more of them than your tattered remnant
plus if you had any tech they didn't
have then they have a lot of time and
your ruins dig through and retro
engineer that tech from and they will
too it is vastly easier to design a call
from thousands of broken examples of
them than to invent one from scratch
especially when you've eyewitness
accounts and videos of them in action
so if you have ftl technology your enemy
has ftl technology soon after it might
give you a head start as might a
superior conventional sublight drive but
enemy pursuing you over thousands of
light years without ftl needs to split
up a lot and need centuries to converge
even a few local armadas if one spots
you a ftl base fleet personally can
converge faster resupply faster and get
tech updates from home they are also not
undergoing generational drift since they
aren't chasing you for centuries or
longer
if you are fleeing an enemy armada sent
to wipe you out and doing that say 19 of
light speed while your enemy can move at
20 percent and you launch the five light
year advantage from a colony on the edge
of your main civilization they need 25
years to get to where you left from
while you're already 4.75 light years
further away
another generation of travel for them to
catch up if you stop there which you
won't in a flat out chase they'll take
500 years to catch up to you 100 light
years away
there's also over 10 000 star systems
within 100 light years so if all they
knew was where you left from and at what
maximum speed that's how many potential
places they need to be sending ships or
probes to
incidentally if you're wondering how to
calculate your time to overtake someone
in a straight stern chase you divide the
distance they have as a head start by
the difference of your speeds
you then multiply that time by your
speed or their speed to see how far
you've covered
if someone's five miles ahead of me
walking three miles per hour and i walk
four miles per hour the difference in
our speed is one mile per hour so i'll
cover that five mile head start in five
hours and since i'm going four miles per
hour five hours later i've caught them
20 miles away
this works the same whether you're
chasing folks in light years or metric
but it's trickier if you're chasing them
from an angle as you have to do
trigonometry at that point
you can also use negative speeds to plot
the time and location for two objects
running at each other rather than chase
math lesson complete no quiz to follow
now we already spend a lot of time
talking about how to hide spaceships in
our stealth spaceships episode in under
known science it's pretty hard but
that's in the context of you hiding as
you sneak into someone's fortified and
developed star system not when you're
running from your own and pursuit would
take place in essentially uncolonized
space
how do you make the getaway if you know
an enemy fleet is coming your way and
you have no real chance to stop them
it helps to have a lead time and a known
trajectory for them because an easy
option if you've got both is to shadow
your flight with noise potentially just
sending parts of your own fleet out to
engage them or your interceptor missiles
and time detonations attacks etc to when
your escape fleet is firing its engines
it would be pretty hard to accelerate
from a stop to interstellar speeds while
covering the whole thing so this is more
of a situation where they knew you were
fleeing and use the noise or blast to
fire your engines to change vectors a
bit
and you now have a cone of possible
trajectories they had to investigate
that could be a pretty wide cone too
consider a blast that obscured your
engine for 100 seconds lets you pull
potentially a 10 g burn for that time
that changes your velocity by entire
kilometer per second
now that is fairly small as a speed at
interplanetary scales let alone
interstellar but it builds up
that ship doing 20 of light speed fully
60 000 kilometers per second will have
covered 10 light years half a century
later and from that new one kilometer
per second velocity will be as much as
1.6 billion kilometers off the expected
course
that's over 10 astronomical units
peanuts in no stellar terms but the
entire value of our solar system out
past saturn
it makes line and ambush pretty tricky
if you've got units from other
directions that could beat them there
and they're running pretty dark you
haven't got great sensors on the spots
and all over that destination solar
system then you probably wouldn't see
them at all what's more there's no
reason they have to head toward a solar
system odds are good that even if they
need to stop to take on more fuel and
raw materials a smaller dwarf planet
hanging around in the empty void between
star systems should do the trick
another thing to keep in mind is when we
talk about detecting stealthy spaceships
we often mean with giant detectors or
telescopes that might be kilometers wide
or even bigger
a spaceship might carry such a system or
be able to rapidly fabricate them in
solar systems they were traveling to to
ambush you in but those might be very
hard to use on the run because they'd be
getting shoved on by interstellar gas at
the speed your ship moved and even
ignoring the force pushing against you
and slowing you and the wear and tear on
those detectors both of which are
immense problems
billions of moats of gas and dust
slamming into you at relativistic speeds
is going to generate a huge amount of
noise and much of it in one of the
general frequencies you're hunting for
the other ship in so picking up ships
while you chase them is much harder than
with stationary systems in a place you
control
if your escape fleet is considerable
enough and can self-replicate to some
extent you could try to deplete the
useful star systems on your way from
useful fusion fuel especially if
deuterium fusion is feasible but h1 is
not or uses methods to shut down stars
so generally cannot use them for laser
highways to chase you or has a harder
time doing it and you're depleting it by
potentially building more scapecraft and
more roadblocks to hunters though using
up a system this way will definitely let
them know you're there once a lot of
your activities reaches them some years
or decades later
so the job of the hunter is no easy
matter you're essentially throwing
probes at everything looking for a ping
or a whiff of a trail and those will be
there but trying to find evidence of a
rocket flame or ion trail a decade after
it passed through the interstellar void
is not easy mind you it is doable but
not easy and if you find it the
reconstructed trailer will be uncertain
another cone of possible speeds and
trajectories build off noticing
something like one part per million
increase in helium in the local
interstellar medium showing outlier
speeds well above what we expect from
local hot gas and average to a net speed
opposite the direction that ship went
hot ions flying out of the engine of a
fast-moving spaceship have a very
different speed and direction from where
that ship or rocket plume would
otherwise produce
here we can discuss some strategy though
interstellar gas comes in a wide variety
but six fairly distinct types molecular
clouds cold and warm neutral medium warm
ionized medium h2 ionized hydrogen star
formation nebulae and kernel gas
that last coronal gas or hot ionized
medium gets that name from being the
coronal regions around the galaxy where
the density is the lowest and the
particle's fastest having effective
temperatures in the low millions of
kelvin and parallel to what we expect a
high velocity ion drive to kick out
exhaust velocities of hundreds of
kilometers per second and also what you
need to escape a galaxy
out here near the fringe there's way
less gas around for your exhaust to
interact with which has pros and cons
for detection as particles colliding
with very high speed differences can
give off a radiation signature whereas
it not colliding much makes it much
easier to sniff out a precise direction
when you find some of those exhaust
particles
incidentally i said sniffing for one
part per million but that's likely on
the high side concentration may be way
way lower but it's also not as hard to
detect as you might think
keep in mind a nuclear explosion would
be naked eye visible to us millions of
kilometers away and if we imagine
looking at one ten million kilometers
away with our eyeball surface area about
one square centimeter then that means
only about one in 13 trillion trillion
photons that that event produced to
reach your eyeball
we can discern very high resolutions and
tiny changes of color with our rods and
cones and the supercomputer worth of
visual processing data in our brain
and yet we can build far better
detectors than that and i think we
should assume an interstellar
civilization could outdo us too
and spaceship engines are fundamentally
on par with nuclear devices in terms of
their output
now here's the strategy option you are
fleeing so you probably gamble on them
having a harder time tracking you
through thick cold gas like a molecular
cloud than thin hot gas and even better
through hot dense gas one of those h2
regions where big hot blue stars form
you will leave awake but maybe one too
rapidly obscured to be useful same as a
boat's wake on the ocean is not very
handy for tracking it a day after it
passed by
this can also be relevant to whether
you're using a propulsive ramjet device
which would work better in denser parts
of the intergalactic medium arguably
those regions where you're better
cloaked may simultaneously be regions
you can accelerate harder assuming you
can make abuse of the ramjet or black
hole variant of one work see our fusion
proportion or black hole ships episodes
for discussion of those technologies
there is a wonderfully realistic example
of a multi-year sub-light speed chase in
alastair reynold's novel redemption arc
and another longer example in his other
novel house of sons which discusses
tricks and detection involving very low
concentrations of particles
so aiming toward one of those blue
giants isn't a bad option though they're
not super common either so might be a
place folks went to wait and see if you
showed up at
still they are big enough that you could
potentially do a fairly obscured burn
while passing behind one and could also
potentially be extending solar panels
and scoops to both alter your trajectory
and get some energy material from it
that won't be super subtle but while
your pursuers will likely see it they
would need many sentries for the hounds
hunting other trails to even alter their
course for pursuit and your new
trajectory would be pretty blurred
the other big trick though would
probably be to aim right for a red giant
the biggest and least dense you might
aim for head right into its photosphere
meaning a year across and change your
trajectory while flying through
running into a sun sounds like a
suicidal strategy at best you can uh
saving the last bullet for yourself but
in truth red giants are so thin that you
could plow right through one's outer
layers you'd heat up a bit and lose
speed but that's an amazing place to be
toning your angle where no one is going
to see you use your engines or how you
tacked into the solar wind with sails
red giants are also way more common than
blue stars
they're also very bright due to their
size which is helping mask you but also
means your ship needs to be very
mirror-like in order to avoid absorbing
a lot of that light and overheating
before you even get to the distance from
the giants on par with earth's from our
sun
assuming you could pull either or both
off that would be my two escape
strategies with a fleet to shake main
pursuit and force them to either give up
or split up so you either use lots of
explosions and noise to conceal your
exit from your system where you know the
timing on those explosions and or use a
nearby red giant to pass through and
shift your course and speed a lot
you also probably know how good your
enemies detectors are likely to be and
could run your own engines just a bit
under that threshold for prolonged
periods and that was something small
like just a millimeter per second per
second acceleration well that might take
you an hour to get to a change of
velocity akin to a quick jog but a
decade of doing that is 315 kilometers
per second speed change a 4 000th of
light speed and close to the galactic
escape velocity in its own right and
enough that our hypothetical ship moving
a fifth of light speed is now trillions
of kilometers off expected course after
a mere century of travel
one advantage the hundred have is that
if an opposition ship finds out it's in
the wrong solar system 10 light years to
the side of your trajectory then unless
it has a huge speed advantage it will
need hundreds of light years to close up
on you again
using our 19 light speed hunted ship and
20 light speed for suit ship example
that pursuer will need 160 years to
catch up coming from that side angle
again not a math class but that was
forming a right triangle whose size were
10 light years and 0.19 t where t is our
intercept travel time and our hypotenuse
is 0.20 t
solve for t as normal with pythagoras
again not a math class no quiz coming
now an inevitable point someone would
raise is that such civilizations have
the ability to not only throw huge
armadas after you but potentially
growing ones too able to pick up
resources at new systems to build more
of themselves with
however if we're assuming rough
technological parity you presumably have
that same ability to replicate more
ships and need the same sorts of times
and efforts to positive systems to do
this
and remember by and large there's very
little in space to slow a ship in motion
pausing to refuel means burning a ton of
fuel to stop and using more to start
back up
this might be easy enough to do your
fuel might just be something
hyperabundant like deuterium and you
stop to resupply or pick up raw material
to replicate but does take time to slow
down
loosely speaking if you can accelerate
that 1g indefinitely one week for every
2 of light speed
faster burns are better slower much
worse though much less visible
now slow burns would seem the preference
of the pursuit and fast burns the
prerogative of the pursuer and that's
mostly true but the pursuer doesn't
really want to be giving away their
trajectory either as it makes it easier
to deploy consuming efforts and traps
against them
as an example spinning up some sailor
graphene just a few atomic widths thick
and hundreds of kilometers wide might
only cost you a few tons of available
mana on your ship you can push against
that sail to give yourself a bit of a
concealed and unexpected trajectory
while leaving it moving fairly quickly
towards your pursuing ship who might ram
right into it but you can only do that
if you're pretty sure where they are
because while a sheet the size of texas
seems like a big blanket to drop on
someone it's really tiny compared to
interstellar space and it's usually
pretty unlikely anyone would follow you
directly in favor of being just a bit
off the side especially if they have a
fleet
of course you might have a fleet too
which offers a scatter strategy and it's
not really his voice on this some of you
might be captured and interrogated for
the expected rendezvous point since that
data could be pretty tightly kept and on
a nicely encrypted drive the navigator
could atomize if you did get boarded by
the enemy which is vastly harder than
blowing them up would be
but you might not want to rendezvous
anyway consider an escape fleet benefits
from sticking together to share the
minimal scavenged resources but it's
entirely possible that strategy wouldn't
be necessary if every ship has a 3d
printer a complete archive of important
data and is capable of supplying
feedstock to that printer from available
interstellar materials then you don't
really need to hold together
in battlestar galactica they keep a
running tally of the population of
humanity at around 50 000 the pittance
of a few parts per million that survived
of their 12 colonies and there's an
assumption they need to stick together
so they don't get genetically
bottlenecked and produce a lot of mutant
idiots with three thumbs
now we tend to wildly exaggerate the
downsides of inbreeding marrying your
first cousin has been a time-honored
tradition for centuries at a time in
tons of cultures and even when it wasn't
your typical tribal village had nearly
everyone at most third or fourth cousins
with the occasional interjection of a
few new bloodlines as migrants raiders
or journeyman crafters and such
some fleet of 50 000 isn't really at any
risk of genetic bottlenecking and even
if it broke into 10 fleets of 5000 each
they'd be mostly okay
indeed you could go a lot smaller and
more importantly it would only matter in
the absence of technology you can grab
sperm egg and dna samples from everyone
in the fleet and put them on ice with
modern tech to distribute to every
splinter fleet indeed you can digitize
that dna it is just data and then
printed and inserted into eggs we have
that tech now if somewhat primitively
and we worry about inbreeding because of
certain genetic disorders becoming more
likely but odds are good they'd have the
tech to eliminate or correct or treat
those
at the end of the day you could clone
your whole civilization back up from a
single person in an archive of genetic
and historical data indeed the lone
survivor probably isn't needed either so
you might have to make seed ships or
data ships that don't contain an alive
and conscious crew and possibly with no
organic material at all see your episode
on sleepless ships and see chips for how
those ships walk
but they might let you send out a
trillion seeds to survive an enemy
attack though they presumably can also
send a trillion seeds of destruction
behind you using the same tech and
strategy
however let's assume these were
generation ships and ones that could
stop occasionally maybe you can zigzag
through various red giants every light
century or so and that makes you
comfortable to stop for resources to
replenish or expand your survival fleet
that is likely to mean a dozen
generations of war between stops so it
is almost a new civilization for every
leg of the journey
let's close them by discussing what life
on such a ship or fleet is like
now i've been ballparking 20 of light
speed as the ship's travel time because
on the extreme high end of what you
might be able to do with a fusion drive
see our fusion propulsion episode for
details
and is likely to be slower not faster
indeed under one percent of light speed
might be a lot more reasonable and has
some major stealth advantages we
discussed in that stealth spaceships
episode
overall speed is your friend when
fleeing but not always as fast as you
can whenever you can
nonetheless if we assume that 20 light
speed and capacity for controlled and
high efficiency fusion then we have a
civilization that can employ a lot of
tricks to send splinters of itself off
to slow down and harvest material and
catch back up
which means they can also run their
tanks nearly dry and harvest fuel to
slow the armada at the destination so
long as they keep slow down fuel for one
ship in their fleet
they are at risk but it's doable as we
saw in nomadic space-based civilizations
there's a lot to be said about having
fleet elements ahead behind and to the
side of your main fleet in terms of
detection obfuscation and redundancy
ultimately if your goal is to make the
galaxy's edge you're looking at travel
times of hundreds of thousands of years
and many millions to neighboring
galaxies though there's no special
reason to aim for neighboring galaxies
as we'll discuss shortly
i don't know what the leaders of that
fleet tell their folks on board possibly
nothing they might not even let them
know their artificial environment was
artificial or moving or they may
constantly say the enemy is right on
their heels thousands of years after
their last distant contact
ship captains tend to be in a good
position to play tyrant even classic
ocean-going ships let alone interstellar
arcs so they have a lot of options for
maintaining control and keeping to a
plan
they might be functionally immortal too
having radical life extension being post
biological or going on ice for a
generation at a time and only emerging
every few decades for a few weeks to
confirm their delegates are doing what
they were told
the whole civilization might be like
that too
one of the main temptations in fiction
for ftl or for ships moving so close to
it that they are massively slowing local
time passage is that it makes for short
journeys for the crew but odds are we
will have the technology to freeze
repair or digitize people before we
actually launch our first interstellar
colony ship so the need for a classic
generation ship is likely to be greatly
reduced
a post biological crew might have a
whole simulated ward of a billion
survivors on some ship no bigger than a
modern rocket running on the electricity
needed for running one life support
system for a crew of a dozen biologicals
it might opt for slowly plotting out of
the galaxy ultra slow and taking a
hundred million years to look like a
normal ejected rock
it is hard to imagine the civilization
that killed them would still exist let
alone be searching for all that time
logically though they'd be better off
going as fast as they can in sending out
duplicates the big thing though is that
you don't want to be moving slower than
the enemy colonizes space around them
because you can evade pursuit fleet but
you cannot evade a xenophobic enemy
whose main colonized space you are
passing through
your odds for detection and entrapment
rise immensely if you try
so you need to flee to the galactic rim
ahead of that expansion wave you can opt
to stop if it's slow and try to rebuild
civilization and a force able to beat
the enemy back or even pursue them and
liberate your own home board indeed that
strategy has a good chance of working
eventually on any enemy who is capable
of changing and factionalizing since
their once great empire might have
shattered into a realm thousands of
times bigger made of thousands of
separate realms many of different
behaviors than their ancestors
if not if you do have an enemy willing
and able to pursue for countless
generations intergalactic space is your
best hope borrowing interdimensional
travel and as we discussed in our
episode the edge of the universe you can
eventually flee over the cosmological
event horizon and be safe from pursuit
of course you might find other hostile
aliens out there given you presumably
met at least one in your home galaxy
though you could be fleeing from your
own kindred or something of your own
making like artificial intelligence
odds are good the flight will last a lot
longer than the hostilities did very
much like the classic exodus out of
egypt and 40 years in a desert only in
this case the baron wasteland is
interstellar space and the period
wandering is likely to be 40 millennia
not 40 years
it is quite possible you would stop and
settle every few millennia going on ice
during the voyage and leaving a series
of detectors behind to warn of pursuit
then pack up and rush away again if it
emerged
of course many of your folks might
refuse to or you might have gotten lazy
and not maintained your fleet or
expanded to keep up with the rising
population on your new world
one option that's a bit grisly as a
variant of our gardener ship approach
that involves stopping for a few years
to dump off your colonists and a new
system resupply then breed new colonists
while on route to the next star a few
decades away they could keep doing that
indefinitely and colonize out to the
galaxy's edge but you might take the
more grizzly option of leaving those
colonists behind to serve as a barrier
against pursuit you stop to resupply and
expand leaving some behind to colonize
the system grow and arm themselves and
stop or slow pursuit as with the garden
of ships you might occasionally build
more ships and split your fleet to
result in expanding colonial kona wedge
out to the rim of fortress wars the
enemy has to deal with along the way
with the right technology you might be
mining entire star systems out in a few
centuries of lead time turning the whole
thing into space fortresses and armadas
or into explosive minds even detonating
entire stars to conceal your passage and
slow your pursuers
that would make it sound like life on
these escape fleets was pretty grim and
dark even after the passage of the
generations who remember the original
holocaust that sent them fleeing
but it might not that shared purpose and
enemy might tend to limit internal
squabbling for good or ill or both and
violent encounters with the enemy would
presumably be pretty rare given the
timelines of interstellar travel so they
might be a lot more peaceful day to day
than we are nowadays
that's probably optimistic though
there's a good chance everything is very
paranoid and tight on such ships since
even one jerk with a hand radio might
accidentally or deliberately give their
position and trajectory away
one explosive incident that blew out a
piece of the ship might hurt them while
telling their enemy where they were
it wouldn't be like a submarine where
noise has to be controlled and
everything whispered and padded there's
no noise in space after all but there
would be parallel cases
shuttles running lights between ships
even for drones inspecting the hull with
active detection could give their
position away
too much heat expenditure also could
those ships probably never stop any more
often than they must too which for one
percent light speed every light century
means thousands of years between stops
equal to all of a quarter human history
and probably means very firm control of
population growth as a result
smaller is better in that context since
it means less resources used and longer
pauses between stops and you might get
some very heavy-handed controls on
things like career even cast systems
so too it's not exactly unheard of for
dictatorial authority extended from
perceived necessity to some aspects of
life to grow to cover other areas far
beyond what's seen justified originally
you might have a pretty regimented life
you might be born in a tank you might be
stuffed in a freezer on the captain's
whim until the next stop or exiled or
dumped out of an airlock for disobeying
all told it might not be too hard to
find volunteers to stay behind and build
and occupy those fortress wards to the
rear and it might not be too hard to
believe they decided to switch sides
that the offer was made
again pretty bleak but given what
they're running from and why the
alternatives sticking around or turning
to fight even a futile might be pretty
tempting
of course the enemy might have the
ability to worsen kill you resurrect you
for torture than killing you again every
day for neon
or your captain might lie and say they
do all in all it's a fate best avoided
and it's one reason i tend to assume
civilizations bypass trying to hide in
favor of just growing themselves bigger
and stronger and doing so before an
enemy emerges
but to bring this in for a landing what
actually happens once you're out beyond
the galactic edge
well surprisingly you do not necessarily
need to set course for a neighboring
galaxy there are actually tons of stars
all across the intergalactic void even
in the cosmic voids we often mention
they are rarer much rarer but any of
them serve as potential havens for your
civilization and given the travel times
you are likely to stop at them you also
likely have enough time to engage in a
lot of atomic alchemy and building so
your enemy might be far enough behind
you that you could turn that star into a
k2 dyson swarm complete with a niko
dyson stellar mega laser for evaporating
planets or fleets or shoving fleets up
to a halo's breath of light speed while
potentially serving as a nightmare delay
for the pursuit
there is no guarantee that will stop
them they may build their own and throw
their armadas behind you on billion-year
chases to other superclusters or the
cosmological event horizon
they may use a.i that never get bored or
tired and do not know the meaning of the
word mercy
still it probably is the right call to
flee anyway
any enemy so monomaniacal it will chase
you for eons all the way out to the edge
of the universe is no enemy you want to
turn around and fight and the
civilization is fleeing for millions of
years is still one that is existing the
reaper is going to come one day whether
you flee or stay whether you're hunter
or hunted but life on a generation ship
in flight is still life
and probably a lot like life would
otherwise be and as long as you're
breathing possibly metaphorically if
you're post biological there's still
hope a chance you'll gain an edge and
change the game
[Music]
so we have several announcements today
before we wrap up but first we were
doing some math in today's episode and i
try to keep that to a minimum but some
topics just don't convey well without it
and one of those is plotty intercept
courses which outside the very simple
case of a pure stone chase really
requires knowledge of trigonometry to do
right and there is an amazing class on
trigonometry over at brilliant that will
demystify all the angles and
calculations till they become easy and
intuitive and very useful
if i've never mentioned before i went to
homeschooling from 6th grade on to when
i started college at 16 and this was the
early 90s so they didn't have much other
than pencil paper and textbooks to learn
out of and i self-taught algebra out of
an old 1950s textbook my mom got me then
i got my trigonometry in an accelerated
five-week summer class and my first two
college jobs were working on computer
lab back when the internet and home
computers were still pretty uncommon and
as a math tutor for folks one of my big
gripes then was how awesome it would be
to have interactive learning software
instead of textbooks and dull lectures a
brilliant is that platform and is the
hands-on interactive learning tool i
wish i had when i was learning math or
tutoring it
as we enjoy another holiday season and
try to get gifts for our friends and
loved ones many of us know folks looking
to learn science and math and there
really is no better gift than the gift
of knowledge
brilliant makes an awesome gift for any
of the ambitious learners in your life
whether it's an inquisitive niece an
all-knowing parent or the neighbor who
seems to have everything i know your
curious loved ones of all ages will be
excited to grow with brilliance
interactive learning approach
brilliant is the hands-down best
hands-on interactive stem learning
platform out there which can assist you
or loved ones in learning concepts by
visualizing them and interacting with
them the best way to learn
on brilliant you can just pick a course
you're interested in and get started be
it the basics are advanced if you get
stuck or make a mistake you can read the
explanations to find out more and learn
at your own pace knowing and
understanding math science and computer
science unlocks whole new worlds and if
you'd like to start your journey to them
you can try out brilliant for free and
get 20 off a year of stem learning click
the link in the description down below
or visit brilliant.org isaac arthur
so i was just saying the sponsor read
how tricky math is to learn from a book
and since the episode comes out right
after finals week for fall semester 2021
for a lot of our audience i hope you did
well in those and you had some good
professors i was pretty fortunate in
that regard especially for math as i had
the same instructor all math chairman dr
mona jaffe for all three calculus
classes plus linear algebra and
differential equations he was one of my
key mentors in college and the only one
not a physicist
if you benefit from having some good
mentors it's a great time to send them a
thank you card or email that always
makes their day
or pay it forward and do some mentoring
of your own i was lucky to have many
good mentors professors mark manley
elizabeth mann and mike lee amongst many
others in physics and a ton of ncos in
the military sergeant major dennis woods
and sergeants irving dominic charles
mars and william armstrong particularly
come to mind thanks to all those folks
and more for the time and patience and
knowledge you gave me down the years
and again i hope everyone did well on
finals
amusingly we always have a small but
noticeable drop in views during dead
week and finals week especially from
that age range presumably deep
theoretical science chats aren't what
folks feel like watching after cramming
for exams
now those over it's a great chance to
catch up on all the episodes you might
have missed this year as among many
holidays this week today happens to be
national movie marathon day
also for audio only listeners this show
is available on soundcloud itunes
spotify and now also on audible podcasts
and amazon music that is both with and
without musical accompaniment since a
lot of folks like to marathon on them to
fall asleep to and our traditional end
of episode credit roll with music tends
to wake people back up
going into the end of another successful
year i want to thank everyone whose name
shows up in those credits and many more
who don't for all their thoughts help
and donations of time or money to keep
the show going since its inception in
2014
and as we go to wrap up this year we
still have a monthly livestream q a
coming up this weekend where my lovely
assistant and wife sarah will be reading
me questions from the audience this
sunday december 26th at 4 pm eastern
time which is also kwanzaa boxing day
national thank you note day and candy
cane day
then we'll close the year out next
thursday december 30th national bacon
day by looking at the challenges we will
be facing the next 100 years then we
will explode into 2022 with look at
using nuclear bombs to propel spaceships
after that we will visit our most
popular series alien civilizations and
civilizations at the end of time first
for a look at hibernating alien
civilizations that might be waiting till
nearly the end of time then for a look
at the big rip the cosmological model
that ends the universe early and by
being shredded and we will ask how
civilizations might manage that or
manage to survive that
now if you want to make sure you get
notified when those episodes come out
make sure to subscribe the channel and
if you enjoyed the episode don't forget
to hit the like button and share it with
others if you'd like to help support
future episodes you can donate to us on
patreon or our website isaacarthur.net
and patreon and our website are linked
in the episode description below along
with all of our various social media
forums where you get updates and chat
with others about the concepts in the
episodes and many other futuristic ideas
until next time thanks for watching we
wish you various happy holidays
including a merry christmas and we'll
see you sunday
[Music]
[Music]
you
