good afternoon everyone and welcome to
the sfia monthly live stream q a
we'll get started in just a moment but
go ahead and start getting your
questions in the chat window so our
materials can start relaying those to me
as soon as we start please try to keep
the questions concise and watch your
spelling and try to be polite to others
in the chat we usually go for about an
hour so you probably want to grab a
drink and a snack though we'll take a
break about halfway through too with all
that said welcome and let's get started
good afternoon everyone and Welcome to
our monthly live stream q a right after
Thanksgiving it is a great honor to be
with you guys once again and I am
usually enjoyed by my lovely wife and
co-host Sarah Fowler Arthur and we are
not joined the moment by the three new
children we've just brought in the
household who also gave me a great
welcoming gift of a cold so I'm a little
bit raspy today and um we'll talk about
that more later on but just excuse me as
an apologies in advance if I'm a little
bit uh raspy as we go through the day
and to our children watching with
Grandma Hi be good be quiet
so it's kind of a test run to see if we
can successfully have them they are
young so they are probably very tempted
to make noise but they are hopefully
going to be well behaved they'll be good
okay well let's kick it off here with a
question we have a super chat from Dara
cloak how far out in the universe do you
think that humans will ultimately travel
before Cosmic inflation puts an end to
further expansion
um you know there's a lot of good and
bad answers that one the problem is
that uh it all depends on how big you
make your spaceships how fast you can
make them Loosely speaking uh and don't
quote this notebook exactly it's just
the one I've stuck in my head you have
about a sense of light speed expansion
for every billion light years treating
you an object at the moment so if you
would launch a spacecraft to the Galaxy
that's a building light years away and
you're going seven percent of light
speed you will never ever get there even
eight percent you're really going to get
there at the one percent of Life speed
and that's gonna take you 100 billion
years so you could say well if I'm
leaving it 99 of light speed I should
get 13 billion like us away which is not
that big a chunk of the universe that's
maybe like a hundred the universe will
be inside that volume
um but in our probability
I would say probably your limit's going
to be about the superclass storm maybe
you know maybe an area 10 times that
hard to say for sure though
so you have a question from Elizabeth
Davis if we ever develop teleportation
could it be used to move buildings or
even to take the top of a mountain and
move it into a lake to create a new
island
it's a good question
um the thing about teleportation or what
more technology is that it tends to be
uh you know what we picture in books on
sci-fi usages tends not to be as much as
what the physics would tell us would
happen but that's based on this or that
individual Theory like we'll say oh
that's not how wormholes welcome so well
that's how Wormhole was specifically the
Einstein Rosen Bridge works right that's
very different than some of the other
models for wormholes but um one of the
ideas you tend to have in your head with
something like a wormhole is yes you
could do something mad about it if it's
just acting as a kind of classic
Stargate portal you could stick one end
of it inside of a molten Planet you know
uh the core and the rest of it inside a
bit of an ocean just dump lava in there
and make yourself a new island or you
could dump something from the center of
the sun into some other place and use
that to heat a planet up where you put a
little or being more around the planet
to sun shine the sunrise but
um that's not how wormhorse in the
classic math case would walk for
instance I can take a woman flat like
this and another the one here and I have
a ball that falls from here down to this
hole pops back up through the top and
follows again and should just keep
speeding up and say oh well that's a
perpetual motion machine but if you
actually run the math on it rather it's
the concept it actually will lose speed
as it gets back on the top again so just
reset
every time and US dozen of breaking
thermodynamics and there's a lot of
cases like that where I just wouldn't
work the way we'd expect it to
so Barry on says any idea if you'll ever
touch on the scharnhurst effect I'll
admit it's at least it's likely to be
the least interesting method of faster
than light travel
um okay so the Sean host effect is the
idea that in in the vacuum or in a
perfect condition the speed of light as
say the speed of light in the vacuum we
talk about that speed as opposed to a
speed in AO which is a little bit slower
or speed moving through glass well speed
of light in a vacuum it has a refractive
index of
um Axiom of v01 but basically no
refractive index should be a zero and
you have a negative refract you know uh
index so it would actually go faster
than the speed of light and inside
something like a Casmir effect situation
where you're supposed to have something
that's lower pressure than even a vacuum
of nothingness the idea then would be
that you have it moving faster than the
speed of light in there and this has
been proposed and discussed and it's
debated as whether or not I walked the
farmer is there to test this using our
current ability to use the Casmir effect
for that uh isn't enough for us to
actually be able to measure I think I
kept uh my mouth up my head but I want
to say it's like
we expect it currently to raise the
speed of light if that effect worked as
it was suggested by something like one
trillion trillion trillionth higher than
it currently is so hard to measure
um and if it is the case yes that would
walk though it'd be one case like a
false vacuum where it wasn't really the
real speed I think there's be a little
bit higher there's that sort of thing I
expect to let you go you know across
stars in minutes or days as opposed to
maybe just one percent faster or
something like that
so we have a question as well from Glenn
cookie I'm very interested in the
economic politics of the future if we
can feed the population does it mean we
do feed the population
hmm
um
you know that's that is one of those
ones I can't actually answer because the
idea they are is you don't get the
shadow off my head for the microphone
it was better before yeah was it okay
yeah I'll just shut that one light off
it was lighting inside Studios always
kind of tricky there's a light right
behind the mic though let's see what you
might just spend the switch on that yeah
um but the idea is if I had the
technology to do something do we
actually successfully do it or do we
decide no we could do that but uh what's
our motivation you know and
um like I said generally walk out oh
just change the Shadows what ah sorry
what was the question
all right would we feed the population
we had enough of them
um once I could see again
let's just leave it off and assume it's
fine
I end up yeah wishing the light in here
so okay I have
um a population that I had the
technology to feed more of doesn't
actually make sense to keep feeding them
uh in the case where someone for
instance couldn't afford or whatever it
is and the Assumption was to say as well
of course but others might say well no
don't pay me I don't wanna
was that the speaker
Let's uh
there we go all right
I just let it sit there okay um
we are having some technical
difficulties I guess the idea there
being I would like to think that we
would continue to feed the population at
the same time uh for those remember the
slightly more malthusian days like the
80s we always went with the population
bomb you'd have folks saying well we
shouldn't send food to Ethiopia which of
our country was starving time because
they'll just keep having more kids they
need more food come in
um I actually think it's kind of a dark
way to look at the universe but
regardless well I agree with that or not
there were a lot of people of that
opinion so that couldn't have been the
case where you might have the population
growing and growing and we have the
ability to produce the food for them but
people say well this just gets us stuck
in a quagmire where we're all always
knock you over some new forces and like
that to add room for it but I think that
it's it's generally the idea that you
don't solve these problems from Just One
Direction you don't solve wood hunger by
simply producing more food but it's only
one of the most important ways you to go
about doing that
but I can't give you a definite answer
because the advice too much on humans
and your eyeballs there but it does
raise an interesting question here from
Randy
Randy if a gamma ray burst hit the Earth
how far underground would you have to be
to avoid radiation poisoning uh probably
just a few feet underground would be
enough to be honest it's it's the thing
is like if you're on your nuclear bomb
Blaster goes off and this is the number
I remember me from my NBC courses in the
military you could be in a normal
drainage ditch for a few meters of dirt
between you and the bomb and even a big
Megaton one if you're outside the blast
radius where it's going to sweep you
under you're already outside where
you're gonna get radiation but just a
few feet of dirt it doesn't take much
all right it should be taught the
gambite boss the biggest concern is that
it's probably going to ionize the
atmosphere and damage the ecosystem that
way rather than blood you ever use
looking at it
well that's positive for you then I
guess
Reverend Darby says I research habitable
zones we are in the liquid water
ultraviolet and photosynthetic habitable
zone among other would a collaboration
of these zones combine to become a quote
Ultra great filter asked in a rare earth
perspective for instance Europa is not
the photosynthetic habitable zone
um you know I am actually a positive
Audi an episode of heisian planets with
the hydrogen ocean planets
um that will be coming out sometime in
mid-February and one of the points to
start off that episode by making is that
when we talk about these terrible
Goldilocks zones the loose idea is that
it's where liquid water's got to be at
um but that's so wrong and we know it's
wrong like it doesn't in itself help us
that much because a plant that's a
little bit less massive or more massive
than Earth doesn't have the same
habitable zone different composition I
haven't seen a different Capital zone
different type of star because the light
is less likely to ionize I would say red
versus more of a white or star becomes a
problem it changes these things around
and all assumes that the life is living
on the surface and uses water rather
than say ammonia but at the same time I
think the idea that you need liquid
water to have life is probably very
likely there may be like if there's a
billion civilizations out there maybe
one that goes off ammonia rather than
water I mean that's a number pull down
today over that since we such a bias
against using something other than water
out there in terms of just how easy or
difficult it would be
and when you then add in other factors
you know in terms like how much sunlight
you get of what frequencies so it
doesn't just rip off all the hydrogen
from your atmosphere as opposed to just
melting out by Stevia but some of the
ionize it away that's a very different
type of crate photo and I think that we
are probably going to find that the mass
of a planet the compositional planet and
the type and the quantity of light it
gets has a very narrow set of Windows
that do not favor most planets well
speaking of the foreign Paradox I know
it's John Michael godier was in the uh
in the chat section so make sure you say
hi to him and uh always a great guy to
talk about the fully Paradox with
dirty bird says here to watch proud
parents in action laughing and crying
face congratulations Isaac and Sarah
spell worries count blessings and let
love be your guide thank you very much
and Albert Jackson thank good afternoon
Isaac and Sarah since we had a
Thanksgiving this past week that got me
thinking what holidays based on events
would emerge as a result of a solar
system colonization on other planets you
know I've always been a little bit
surprised that we never made a holiday
out of Armstrong walking on the moon
um
but uh it might be one of those ones
people so I'll be down throughout I mean
there was when we were going through
that one this one time before like it
was December there was like 50 holidays
I think in the posting my episode but
let's see what I've been looking through
a list of what upcoming holidays are
there and there was always more than
there was days of the month and it could
be something to smell like this is
National agriculture day or national
forestry day or National Coffee Day
national International College today had
its own day yeah uh National Coffee Day
yeah and so you you know there was a day
for almost everything when it comes to
holidays it's if it's important to you
or something to memorize there's no
reason you can't have a holiday on every
day but in terms of big holidays that
you know we we would assume by default
and you know so I got me special Insight
on this I would think that you know if
the day the first thing went to space
for Sputnik or the day that Armstrong
walked on the moon or the day that
somebody lands on most their actual
feeds these are likely be days of
humanity recognized for a long time to
come as all the classic holidays we
already have I don't think any of them
are going anywhere and who wants to get
rid of a holiday and then you'll have
other ones like you know on Alpha
Centauri hey this is the day that we
reach the heliopaths around the solar
system and then these are the days that
we land on Alpha Centauri Planet C
versus Alpha toy gas giant Moon D and so
forth eat each other founding those I
noticed you're picking like like all
happy days like we're finding something
as opposed to a comet wiped out half of
my Planet day
and that's probably a good one to have
though too yeah I think you would
certainly have days of celebrated uh you
know poor Harbor I don't really think
that's a holiday but day of remembrance
yeah the day of remembrance or 9 11 and
uh you know those are other days like
that so one be like if a gamma ray boss
hit the planet yeah that would probably
qualify I don't know what you call that
but you know black Wednesday maybe
but things like that an asteroid strike
um yeah he met aliens today yeah the the
day the aliens survived that could be uh
I'd say that could be the day of
Celebration or a day of remembrance or
both because like they might you know
some people might wash them quite gladly
as great allies but others they will
crustly their foot you know booted feeds
and they're going to view it differently
um although the important thing about
any holiday is if everybody who
celebrates it isn't around any more it
probably doesn't get continued along its
own cards so
all right 7 64. thank you for your Super
Chat is it possible for an incredibly
large and Incredibly ancient creature to
operate on the gravitational force who
see Earth as their quote Dragon's egg
hmm
um I mean the reference day would be rub
it out forwards um novel Dragon's egg
which is a great one
um he was looking at the concept of
whether or not life working on the
nuclear forces scale rather than what
we'd be more the electrical chemical
scale could live on the surface of a a
neutron star where things are so dense
that's probably going to be offback of
Wars of attitude this coffee cup would
weigh as much as like a
a lot more than a aircraft carrier I
don't but very heavy right uh but things
are very fast there too so you have a
civilization emerge and over the course
of a few minutes it would go from
cavemen to you know uh space fairing
um the flip side of that of course would
be something that worked out a very
small scale and
um you know you look like the the
structure of the universe the common
analogy we all make uh is wow that looks
a lot like neurons you know the large
scale about about the billion light year
scale it really does look like a you
know photograph of a chunk of brain but
now that's coincidental probably I
assume but uh you know that's you could
also be compared like soap bubble walls
but
um you could have something to operate
on that kind of time scale but size
tends to be very linear to reaction time
there's something Nick Bostrom types A
lot about in his uh books super
intelligence is the idea that if you are
one set the scale your experience is
generally going to go about 10 times
faster where's your 10 times big or you
can experience things usually more than
10th speed so very slow existence but
it's possible I just don't think the
universe will be old enough yet to allow
that
are you familiar with the three body
problem yeah yeah we have an episode
coming up on on well some years back we
did an episode on dark force Theory it
was our first bonus episode that we
actually did on the show The precursor
the Sci-Fi Sundays that we started right
after that it was on the short side I
didn't talk about too much and mostly
focused on Game Theory this is the uh
novel by six and Lou uh the second novel
in this um second round was being the
dark force theory in his three body
problems series remembrance of Earth
um which I do not like the audiobook for
everyone's wondering why I said with a
book of the month is the audiobook
sending like the narrator for that one
good book series but the problem is not
very good for me Paradox solution we all
because it's been getting talked about a
lot more the book redoing that episode
and we're coming out in January I think
is it's um was dark force hostile aliens
and the universe uh but
um they were gonna look at the concept A
little bit more less mathematically
because the so I've read about that
original episode
so
um
but uh it's a decent enough for me
Paradox concept for a book it does not
in my opinion actually make much sense
as a former Paradox solution though
scary though okay so so that was
actually leading up to a question though
but they but the the Super Chat
salsarara thank you and he would like
everyone to know that there's a
potential spoiler when you answer the
question so if anyone hasn't been
familiar with three body problem
question
um when you answer the question he
wanted them to know there would be a
potential support this whole show is
spoilers go ahead why did the to
trislorians not know about Earth if they
lived on Proxima Centauri because the
book wouldn't work very well if they did
that that is it it's kind of like why
did XYZ happening and then obviously
fictional plot it doesn't make any
actual sense but that has nothing to do
with the overall quality of the book
like as example Foundation series by
Isaac Asimov beautiful even series I
love the full sleep books the sequels
get a little weaker but it's the classic
of sci-fi it makes no sense at all
psycho history is better really
nonsensical Dune my favorite movie the
second greatest sci-fi novel series a
long time in my opinion it's all about
the idea that a civilization that has
cheap interest you know it or Galactic
travel and suspensal Fields and laser
beams is somehow short of water the most
abundant molecule out there besides
Hydro helium
but it's a great book endo's game the
third most popular usually speaking the
whole idea there is that for some reason
a 10 year old boy or 12 year old was is
going to be a great Admiral of a fleet
and able to control better than the
adult even to the point where he doesn't
even know what's going on in reality to
better command that makes no sense
strategically great Series so
yeah
all right skin toward hint uh hentacles
hi Isaac love your bolo tie any thoughts
on the future of clothing design and
manufacture I hope we shift away from
mass-produced Fast fashion to a more
made to order models overall um you know
on Amazon
um
it was technically a sponsor of the show
um Theo's the feature you can have like
your car is programmed in so make sure
you only order components that fit that
call like windshield wiper blades the
right size uh and they do have your
clothing to send me too you put your
size in and starts knowing what your
size is I want you to imagine an app on
your phone where you can scan yourself
in right scan your foot scan your you
know you think your foot very accurately
with your phone take some photos and now
you have the perfectly designed shoe for
you or maybe it's the the 20 of those
they make for the people who have the
same footage you it's in a factory
somewhere I think it's sent to you this
thing fits you perfectly uh the gloves
that fit you both it's not size of your
size nine it fits you perfectly
um that is always better right we
haven't really done Taylor's as much or
cobbles things like that it's kind of a
little bit out of fashion in favor of
mass produced and we simply make me
sizes but we can get very specific with
these things and I think that is where
we're going to see that go to it's not
going to be or the one of the 30 or 14
size zone right and just going to be I
want that short and we'll just send you
the one that's the right size for you
today you know I think a lot of women
would like to be able to pick different
patterns for their clothes and have them
fit more comfortably than whatever you
can find that was left at the store yeah
definitely I don't know we were doing
t-shirts and we temporarily don't have
much because that's getting slowed down
be like when are you gonna do so much
again and say we'll have that back out
at some point boy the first request we
have from female audience members was
please get women's shaped t-shirts and
Knots ones that are just guys sizes only
small so there's a bit of a difference
custom tailored clothing that's what the
future is going to be smart cheap easy
available beast cake factory you often
talk about power beaming satellites but
how do you actually beam power through
space
uh well that part's easy but being
through spaces is is the path that's
more straightforward than beating it
through the atmosphere which is the real
problem it'll be me down with people I
am
um we usually what we do is you can fold
it into rectenna's uh oh sorry excuse me
we'll convert into microwaves which is a
fairly straightforward and efficient
process you take solar power or solar
thermal and see that have so for a bit
more details the power satellites
episode and then that gets converted
into microwave same as you use for your
Wi-Fi or your microwave and we just beam
that down as a fairly tight beam down to
receivable called a rectang as opposed
to an antenna and those have an 85
conversion rate of from you know stop
being beaten into them into electricity
rather than heat which makes them far
more efficient than anything else I can
think of they're very good at that and
those go through the atmosphere very
well the mistake people tend to make
about microwaves they think well
microwave sometimes get absorbed by
water and the answer is not really
um we have materials that reflect
microwaves very well and the line was
inside your microwave and typically a
micro wave could pass through an area
and not get absorbed by it at all but if
you bounce around a billion times it
will usually get absorbed by something
and of course light moves so fast that
one second sergeant microwave has
already bounced around a billion times
so it is it is the difference they are
between that and say your lower powered
and non-reflected uh Wi-Fi signal but uh
you need huge rectangles for that
especially because we want to keep the
signal to I think the ocean limit is 100
watts per meter squared we don't want
any signals higher than that for safety
sake you could probably have high on
that that's probably more power than it
needs to be but it also means you're
only Beam Me Down 100 watts per meter
Square which is great but not really
that much better I'm just sticking a
solar panel they would be except that it
works at nighttime too
so that raises an interesting question I
think it ties in from cletus223
for power satellites how could you
prevent all of the Power dissipating
Away by the time it reaches the Earth
the attenuation is not that high in the
atmosphere in well
there's always some attenuation of
anything passing through ale uh it's
just not very high for microwaves that's
why we can get away with using it to
detect clouds
um it goes through so much air without
very little diminishment
um through space there's none at all
except that it spreads out
um and again like laser beams beams
things in general we look at them and
think oh it's a really long cylinder
they are not they are just a very
condensed Ray if you take a little laser
beam and point at the moon now that you
see something that's dim but it would be
a very wide spot when we got there
depending on the beam it might be a
football field size thing so uh we're
talking about orbital power satellites
that really doesn't matter just so as
the spot is no bigger than you receive
on the ground which could be the size of
a good Stadium if you try to beam it in
from the Sun though that becomes a
little bit more tricky but it is
manageable wig it's trickier was trying
to send that beam to a spaceship half a
light year away that gets
hard enough that it might not be viable
outside of on paper
the Cocoon
nickel beam hit Earth
but kill everyone and if so how long
would it take to do so
Nicole beam is it NyQuil Nicolo yes and
I think it actually is probably
pronounced Nick well I've always friends
with Michael Dyson but I remember that's
actually on how the gentleman's name is
James Nicole and Nicole he is actually
active online so I don't know the proper
pronunciation with Michael Beam or
nickel beam but the Niko Dyson beam
Concepts we take an entire star's output
or a good fraction of it 200 would be
even then blow something up what was the
question again
um would it kill everyone if it hit the
earth and how long would it take
um
it would depend on the power of the Sun
and what percentage it was if we assume
100 convulsion of the sun's power into
one being focused on Earth and just a
heat beam it would take seven days to
destroy the planet in the sense of
completely vaporizing a death star style
to just
killing one of the planet
12 hours because you got you probably
let the planet like tone and spin and
peel it like an apple there's a witch
yeah that sounds beautiful I wonder if
I'm a uh
like that just you're from port or pole
as it spun you know yeah
um because the dance was coming in the
more fatal it's going to be on those
spots but 12 hours maybe less you could
do it faster with certain other things
but that's you know fast enough
uh yeah not much time to prepare should
that happen and over 12 hours of the
beam that powerful would be enough to
take the oceans right off while you're
at it too
gravitasini maneuver says hi Isaac
greetings from a huge fan in the grad
Serbia I have a question for you what
are your opinions on a solar gravity
lens telescope and do you think that
we'll build it in the recent future
um I think you'd probably be a little
bit more likely to build something like
a telescope that David Kipping suggested
which is same concept but we're really
using the lensing of your own planet to
enhance the signal but yeah I think
we'll definitely build that at some
point lensing is just too handy
um and we already do at some degree
using certain galaxies to look around
other galaxies for instance
um but it's very handy though it is one
of those
um lucky side effects situations not as
controllables being a point to telescope
wherever you want it so it has its
limitations but yeah I think so
without generating a magnetic field can
we replenish Mars atmosphere faster than
the sun blows it away such as vaporizing
Rock mining Etc thanks yeah yeah
um the
the weight of loss is hard to predict at
the moment because we don't really have
a lot of examples besides oauth we've
got models but those models are not
perfect and we have exactly one case we
can really look at even try to look at
the loss of something like Venus or
Jupiter it's very hard to actually
determine how much lost it is
um but you know we might be talking
about well it loses a few megatons a day
well I'd sound like a lot that's huge
right a few million tons of air a day at
the same time that's a relatively low
leakage rate compared to the actual mass
of an atmosphere like I want to say
Earth's atmosphere is uh 10 to 15 Tons
which would be my quadrillion turn
something in that zone
um and in that kind of case you know if
you're losing a mega ton a day and you
can do a quadrillion was that like a
billion days or something like that
before you have to lose it so very slow
rate I mean if you're playing the
terraform planet in less than a million
years that means you got equipment in
place to generate atmosphere faster than
we lose yet same Mega 10 day and I don't
think that would be the rate you'd be
Louisiana to Moses gravity unprotected
even so but the proof will be in the
pudding we need to actually find some
boards that are busy losing atmospheres
around other stars so a some somewhat
similar question Clash says is creating
a magnetic field for Mars actually
necessary I know the recent Studies have
found that the magnetic field actually
accelerated the atmosphere lost so low
gravity was actually the cause
um that's the beta there's just some
indications there with that one I still
hold the idea of the magnetic field
lowers it uh the rate of loss uh but at
the end of the day you all gain some
loss directly from solar wind coming in
from the Sun for instance and I tend to
think that we put something like an
artificial magnetic field between Earth
and the Sun at some point too just to
help cut down the radiation the Van
Allen belts and around oauth and we'll
be doing a lot of stuff up there that
does not want to get irradiated that
might be hundreds of years down the road
but it's doable
um
do you need it to tell from Mars now uh
would you telephone the moon probably
but then there's always what do we call
tail foaming what we call parachute for
me if I just put a big glass bubble
around Mars for its equivalent then I
don't need a magnetic field because the
atmosphere is not going anywhere at all
and in that case you know there's no
problem but there's always alternative
methods of doing these things
um about the other thing I would say
wouldn't be worth it is to actually try
to spin the core of Mars up because
just because that's how all planet does
it with a big boating metal core of your
radioactive Metals doesn't mean that's
the best way to generate a magnetic
field that's not how we generate
magnetic fields anywhere else on this
planet there'll be a much better ways to
do it
so uh thank you for your Super Chat Wilk
how would you consider a return of
medieval feudal system where specific
planets belong to quote modern Nobles as
opposed to developing a new or better
Society system that we would be going
backwards instead
um I think it'd be decently likely the
thing is a lot of these things can
overlap but it's really popular in
science fiction
um battle Tech comes to mind as as
setting for they had a lot of that but
it's holiday exception I would say
probably the most common Trope in
science fiction in terms of governments
is you know the giant Empire
uh the Federation type thing or your
feudal Warlords and with the various
Noble houses which doesn't you know you
can have a stocks without feudalism they
are not the exact same thing
um in fact you can argue the one kind of
follows meal but any number of this
could work like let's say let's say me
and Sarah doesn't know the people you
know get rich by winning the lottery and
we help build an oligos order and was
like okay this is all foreign
chunk of it as our own area and our kids
can go live on those bits and pieces too
but I own that forever what exactly is
difference between me having built that
thing and some duke or Bayonne for the
past except that they just conquer that
for someone else whereas we built this
thing from scratch and in that kind of
context we got people who might live for
centuries and who would have very
definite knowledge of who related from
what you know there's no
past Tyler who previously used to own it
it's all recorded from the day got built
um it's not that hard to see that
happening again the same with uh I use
the cyberpunk example in most of these
corporations where they are big powerful
families going on and it can happen
pretty easily you know I think in almost
any system whether or not it will my
guess is no I I would say people kind of
don't really like to go that way for
governance so I'm not expect it to
happen uh organically now so it's very
common for people to be the same
profession as their parent too so you
always could have someone whose dad was
actual mom was X and same as them but I
don't think that humanity is really
aiming to go back to an inherited power
structure but
you know it's common science fiction it
could be something that we have happen
quite a lot there's a hundred billion
solar systems out there in this galaxy
alone for us to colonize I'm sure some
of them will try that
so uh chaos Alchemist 10 Isaac did you
get a chance to observe that asteroid
that fell over the Great Lakes area on
the 19th or was there not enough
advanced warning for you to see it and
was it close to where you live oh I
that's this is the first I thought of
that it might have been why we were
seeing so many shooting stars over the
last few weeks though that could be yeah
there was a lot of meteor showers this
time of year too I'm trying to move the
name or something like it's interesting
is back in college when I was in grad
school at Kent State and I got the fun
task of running Observatory on Friday
nights for public showings and
um at that time I knew like every
consolation by by heart and every shower
memorized we had a dome that was
computerized you could just click on the
constellation with Star Search it and it
would rotate everything to the exact
right location and all you do is
fine-tune a little bit for viewing on
the focus and after doing that I forgot
the names of virtually every
constellation and I'd like think twice
about those three young Mars and G Pro
these days so
um
I should probably get back into actually
doing astronomy properly at some point
so I think we should take a little break
here if you have additional questions
that you would like to be answered
please drop them in the chat and we'll
be back here in just a couple minutes
so while we're on break for a few
minutes grabbing a drink and a snack I
want to thank all shows long time cover
artist Jacob Greger as he goes on
indefinite Hiatus from artwork in
general and this show after six years of
making covers for the show he's usually
done the coverall just a couple days
before the episode airs which is why you
often see different covers during the
live stream previews or episodes
mentioning upcoming ones but he was nice
enough to give me a couple months before
he departed and went on break those
early versions I usually make myself
either borrowing and altering public
domain sci-fi images or combining them
or even occasionally just doing them
myself and many of those are quite nice
but never as good as Jacobs and of many
different styles I've let them up today
along with the ones he did to contrast
them Jacob is an amazing talent as all
show regulars know and our first and
longest running volunteer on sfia and
with Thanksgiving right behind us I am
grateful Helena so much of his time at
work and I will keep everyone updated
should he have any neat projects he'd
like to share down the road
speaking of changes as we mentioned last
live stream Sarah and I got approved to
bring home three little kids who we are
aiming to formally adopt after the
required waiting period and are staying
with us as foster kids till then as of
the time I'm writing this showbreak they
are set to move in about a week before
this live stream and so this is our
first live stream since then and I'm
keeping my fingers crossed they're not
howling through the studio knocking
cameras over or jumping into the shots
and if they are please bear with us
also a question that comes up a lot
especially when we have a new film or TV
adaptation of classic sci-fi and fantasy
is if I would do an episode of
critiquing a show and while I often do
give this or that bit of sci-fi a shout
out or poke for how well they did or did
not cover some concept it's not really
what all show aims at not saying I would
never do one it's not antithetical to
the show so if I feel compelled to
appraise or blast some show at full
episode length I probably would but even
then given a whole episode over to some
other show or book or franchise is
probably more likely to take on a form
of play with a key concept as we have
with episodes like the prime directive
on Star Trek and whatever franchise
inspired them generally Fades the
background as I write on the concept
which typically has a lot of other
aspects or variations that the original
bit of fiction didn't cover that we can
reflect on
I also tend to be really Pokey about
Canon changes and classic stories I
understand and sympathize with
adaptations needing some breeding room
but tend to feel that needs to be
minimal and Justified and probably would
go off on rants about it rather than
good upbeat fun discussions I prefer
also there's always some great shows on
YouTube that do more story specific deep
Dives like Quinn's ideas that handle
both story Canon of Classics and setting
realism which is definitely worth some
views and subscribes if you're looking
for some good solid geek fuel after this
live stream
speaking of geek fuel I'm probably about
done getting my coffee refilled for part
two of our show and hopefully we have
time and questions enough for another
lightning round at the end of today's
show so make sure to get your questions
in the moderators as we get back to the
show and more of your questions
[Music]
and we're back
all right so uh what do we got next well
we have a question here from moon to men
has any thought been given to the idea
of colonizing the Cooper belt of other
their start right
well maybe it maybe that's what it's
meant yeah Kuiper Belt of the other
stars via space colonies this would make
any Star viable for colonization yeah
um every Star was colonized before I
mean like you can sort of I want to see
population three stars ones are really
Low Mentality that might be also extra
Galactic there's a chance that that
might be very tricky to actually
colonize because you could install lift
much metal out of that one but uh every
stall should be colonized with some to
be another you would have to import some
of the raw materials but the power was
still there and you can always start
doing artificial Fusion of YouTube but
yes kype belts are probably one of the
first places you colonize another solar
system
um if you come into some place and it's
like a red dwarf
um you already pretty close to the
center of a system where it's Kuiper
Belt would be at that point because it's
very tiny but other places you might do
uh gas chime with tight-packed moons we
have an upcoming well
kind of a loose Trilogy episode for
January on Interstellar colonization
strategies terraforming strategies and
then the constant turning an asteroid
into a spaceship which kind of looks
through some of that so it was a very
good question for that we'll be looking
at that in January so
um
Annabella says if the mini world's
interpretation is correct
could we have faster than light via
wormholes as long as the mouths are in
different timelines created in the
moment that it's turned on to prevent
breaks and causality
if you got a mini wall situation you
don't really ever have brakes in
causality
um you know we were talking about this
in the infinite probability issues
episode some years back the the episode
that also was nicknamed The quantum
cheeseburger
um let's say that there's a universe any
anything in theory which is possible can
happen in a mini War situation it must
happen therefore it is possible that if
I push a button at the exact same
coincidental moment uh one atom of
various materials into another atom of
various other materials but is also
possible finitely likely though insanely
improbable that when I push a button
um a tree sitting in front of me was
suddenly torn to a blue police box uh
out of which a man is going to step
fully formed who calls himself the
doctor and has atrocious taste in
clothing uh at least from the town Baker
era and it thinks he has memories of
having just traveled here from another
timeline right these things are what
happened you have infinite improbilities
you have somebody who literally was
thinking themselves as a train traveler
because they've done it thousands of
times successfully just by coincidence
however insemian probable that is there
are places like that where that would
happen now I tend to be on the least
small in boat of
mini waters run I don't like many Wards
I do not like the concept but it's one
of those interpretations of quantum
that's more popular uh probably type of
Copenhagen these days but there's a lot
of philosophical problems with many
awards that I'm not a big fan of as a
model it works as well as the ones that
predicts what's supposed to happen but
it doesn't have the causality issue to
it because it's just no causality in
that kind of context anymore
Brett Hagee says so hypothesizing that
all of this is an ancestral simulation
what do you think is the best Avenue of
research to prove or disprove it
um
hmm
there's a thing of a conversation I was
having with somebody who was
um well we'll say that for another time
um how would you go about disproving
something in a system where if your
smart programmer you've set up a flag so
that you don't want people to disprove
it that says whenever somebody thinks of
X
um tell them no right we get this brain
in a jaw idea of approaching reality we
said well I'd be in a simulation like in
The Matrix but everything I've
experienced in my brain is my own right
no they're simulating you they can read
your brain they know what's going on in
your brain and if you have X opinion
they don't have to try to you know make
things work again they can pause the
simulation
go back a second so you didn't have ID
anymore and erase it
and then solve it back up again
so you're only ever going to actually
have that walk because it's not just
they have to find out where you said it
for the first time you thought oh I
might be a simulation is that they can
go back after you've already published a
book explain how it works to everybody
else in the simulation and say oh wow
that didn't work out well pause when's
our last backup
okay okay go back to the one from 2022.
let's start back up from there that's
the problem with that guy's name tools
approvia you can only prove something
like that if that's actually the goal of
the program was or they are very lazy
stupid or incompetent which is usually
not implied by anyone who would go to
the level of detail necessary to make a
simulation like the place around us
some interesting points
Jack Brown says do you think there will
be any reason to conduct Interstellar
trade in the future meaning trade
between two or more K2 civilizations
sure
um
I have discovered the formula for portal
gun fluid for Rick and Morty in the
Alpha Centauri system I'm going to trade
that to uh this system back here on
Planet Hollywood the literal one that
was built in the Euro 2300 where they
made the best movies and we're going to
trade the one information for a Non-Stop
stream of you know the brand new
blockbuster movies recently come out for
free uh paid for with that portal gun
fluid formula that's trade it's a Korean
light speed right
um
in terms of more exotic stuff will you
be able to buy a bottle of wine that was
made around Alpha Centauri and have it
shipped back here yeah that's probably
possible you know because again you
might only have one a billion people who
are going to pay that kind of outrageous
price for shipping but in the K2
civilization
um it might not be quite such an
outrageous price and you don't have one
a billion people there you have a
billion billion people so that means
there's a billion people want to buy
that bottle of wine
you know or that you know Action Comics
27 from the serious system or wherever
it was that those relatively unique
items will there be heavy trade slowly
perhaps you could send bulk medals from
one source to another at less than light
speed and you buy them Millennia out you
know but yeah I think they'll betrayed
so Andre Carter says why is Earth and
sci-fi always either destroyed or
forgotten or the head of an Empire that
rules all of their extrasolar colonies
with an iron fist
did I do I thought I did an episode on
that recently well
oh you know that's actually practically
the startup line for the Sci-Fi Sunday
episode this upcoming December uh which
is our first episode in 4k so I'm trying
uh you know so many of the visuals we do
in the episodes are actually in 4K
resolution and I've always rendered a
1080 which is kind of amusing I've been
rendering the show in 1080P uh for back
before I even actually had a 1080p mod
or some years back
um but I recently at the same request
Side Event 4K anyway because there's so
many eclipse and it was a better
resolution so I'm trying for a little
while so it takes a lot more rendering
time but we don't have that many clips
of it so it'll probably just be a thing
we do in a more limited sense but that
first 4K episode interplanetary Civil
Wars sorry planetary Civil Wars we'll
discuss that topic in a bit more detail
uh though in this kind of context from a
storyline
um if you've always have a story
surround the fringes of an Empire Earth
makes a good Center For That
civilization uh just in place you're not
really around or if you're looking at
dystopian thing then authors are setting
for that because if I do a dystopian
future of a new solar Empire why not go
ahead and set on Earth as the most
familiar place as with some other word
so it's it's kind of in it's kind of
like also asking
um why do so be heroes happen to be
orphans you know says well if the hero
is calling out their parents for advice
you know it seems to diminish them a
little bit so I think that's part of it
is if you need something far from
authors are setting you also want to
divorce them from Earth as the main plot
point of Interest too so that should be
Sunday December 11th right yep okay
all right and we have a question from
Connor no I just realized that I don't
have the thing clicked up there to
actually show the episode cycling
through what
well we have a question here from Connor
geschweiler hey Isaac can you please do
an episode about super soldier
technology in the near future
okay
um
now we have to cycle into
um actually that's not a bad suggestion
um
I'm not sure uh we did one on power
armor on battle suit some while back but
let me think on that one if if someone
wants to who's who's not B wants to add
that to the feed so I can help remember
that because what I remember doing these
shows doesn't go way five seconds after
the live stream so far I might actually
do an episode that sounds like a neat
topic okay
all right I've got a scan through here
episode poll again sometime soon go
ahead so a big shout out to cindry for
helping to send me the questions as
always we are grateful for everyone that
helps pull these live streams together
and
uh
I think we'll wait you know more
questions to get through he might be
away from this machine for them yeah I'm
trying to some of them are
let's see let me click the thing back
over to be full moon well I'll wait for
more of those to get loaded up there for
you to find them uh for folks who are
wondering why I don't have the little
kids on the screen and since the folks
are actually asked about that
um
in Ohio which is where Sarah and I are
at for you to actually adopt any kids
from Ohio you have to wait a six-month
period while they're living with you
while they are technically in foster
care during that time you know how to
produce photographs of them to the
public or even their names which is why
we're not saying hi to them beyond that
right now uh they are watching one of
the other rooms I believe but um that is
obviously one of those tricky things to
discuss in much detail I'm looking
forward to put them on screen at some
point and say hello but that's at least
six months out
um as to the system it was just one of
those things that Sarah and I was talked
about was planning to have kids normally
and we still do and also adopt at some
point too and so we're getting movie of
that since I think Welch was about mulch
we started the paperwork in January yeah
it took a long time they were not joking
when they said a paperwork pregnancy
nine months and Counting oh nine months
and let me see we've got another nine
months and I figure that since there are
three of them we have a nine month bus
for Zone oh yes okay with triplets
except you're only supposed to have nine
months for triple it's not 27
all right we have a super chat here from
Joel Dawson thank you Joel I have heard
that Ohio has more astronauts than any
other state that's right
what about it living in Ohio makes them
want to leave Earth and how are they
Coast into returning well you know
there's many ways that one could look at
this um I was gonna say we don't want to
leave we just are very inquisitive
people well anyway I once
unintentionally coined a temporary model
the place had was that our biggest
exports was on kids because we'd uh had
a declining population
um and we're in the Rust Belt areas it
gets cold but uh for Ohio we've always
been you know the population has gone up
in Ohio every decade but we are an area
that tends to have lost its relative
population because we haven't grown as
much as we have high enough both ways
but people tend to wander off to other
places often sunnier ones but um as to
why in Ohio though that's a little bit
easier uh it is called the birthplace of
Aviation for a reason and I actually
used to walk down the hill uh that saw
that something was going on at the White
House and Air Force Base in Dayton
and uh you know Neil Armstrong is here
John Glenn was our Center for a long
time and uh it's obviously it's always
been an important part of the local
uh actually would you call that the
we're very proud of of all of us
especially the patriotism because it is
something that's taught in every it it's
expected to be taught in every school
and then every kid kind of grows up with
this concept of wow we had an astronaut
that walked on the Moon from Ohio maybe
I could do that too yeah that's a it's a
pretty big deal so
um yeah I'd say and and to represent our
area sincere literally represents our
area in the House of Assembly uh the
house of reps um we are very smart about
our golden Aerospace from Ohio and us we
tend to encourage people go into
Aerospace which includes astronauts very
true but probably obviously coincidence
hey Isaac we recently found out that
there might not be enough carbon dioxide
on Mars to terraform it if that is true
are there any alternative methods for
terraforming that planet thanks uh well
the main thing about carbon dioxide you
can make it
um
you know if there's not enough carbon
dioxide they'll just release it for
telephone purposes and and I would agree
that it's not the case
um there's a lot of carbon there and you
always bring in more carbon uh it's
what's the fifth most common uh element
in the universe or
six maybe it goes hydrogen helium oxygen
and I want to say neon or flowing after
that then carbon and nitrogen but very
common stuff you can always bring more
in but I don't think that's the right
way to tear from that planet
um for one thing
um you know we can debate what kind of
effect carbon dioxide has on the
environment and there's a lot of
unknowns there but one of the things we
have tested more is what it does to
human brains above a certain
concentration I think it's around 1 000
parts per million you're talking a
little bit more lethalgic and when it
gets about you know you get a little bit
dumber and so you have classrooms so
they won't do good ventilation and the
students are always getting kind of
tired of them because well it wasn't
well ventilated you got a bunch of
people breathing in there and an old
heating system is blowing carbon dioxide
so the students really were getting
double why the class went on as opposed
to what you know professors usually say
which it seemed like by students were
getting Dumber as the classroom so was
true so I don't think the USA want to
tear for most have a really high
concentration of carbon dioxide do you
think this is better Don Archangel says
can we just crash Europa into Mars and
fix everything increased mass hold core
atmosphere water and maybe restart
spinning at the core
well
yeah I I I was just thinking of an
episode of Futurama where there's a
camera which planet was maybe Neptune
where they were making it the parallel
for Appalachia West Virginia or
deliverance and see if your plant has
got very high carbon dioxide level they
might come with some really bad ideas
um crashing you open tomorrows will not
significantly increase its gravity
because Europa has very little Mass
compared to Mars live on earth
um
it would take an insane amount of energy
to move Europe but they are uh and
um
he would probably make the planet
unhabitable for me tens of thousands of
years by just heat alone you can only
add Mass so quickly to a planet for you
know you heat them up when you do that
you know how it takes tons of rock if
you want to lift a ton of stuff into
space by adding speed to it things that
fall down like asteroids they pick up a
lot of speed on the way down that gets
released as heat energy uh so it's kind
of think of like I'm going to add Europa
as a giant ball of Rocket Fuel that I'm
going to dump on top of Mars and set on
fire I'm not sure that's the best way to
tear off of that play as we have
although it would have the effect of
warming up that that is definitely true
so
um DJ Drax says I suspect water scarcity
isn't even a thing in the bigger solar
systems with super Earths so that isn't
even a good this isn't a good planet to
harvest it from if you wanted to go that
route
uh I would assume that's a reference to
the movie Oblivion
um
which is another one of those examples
of a film that I enjoyed from a
storytelling perspective like Inception
for instance too but which not largely
make a lot of sense in that film uh the
aliens are harvesting all of us oceans
uh specifically for Fusion fuel too
which is weird because they found around
Saturn which has so much more actual
just regular hydrogen and deuterium than
you get out of our oceans uh which you
still have to crack out the option from
anyway
um but
um stupid aliens I think that was the
name of the episode I first discussed
that it was stupid aliens
um
you should never expect anywhere on the
universe to be low on water again the
most common elements in the universe is
hydrogen and the third most is oxygen
you you will find water vapor just
floating through space it's never going
to be real any place where it is going
to be areas on the surface of some you
know planets it'll be so easy to truck
it in from outside the frost line
I think that looks like we have answered
the majority of questions here today and
I know you're
yeah I'm like yesterday my throat is
probably going I'm not sure I'm more
scratchy or mumbly apologies against
everyone listening to the audience if uh
if you're having problems with standing
me today on top of the usual speech
impediment sound
yep I think the rest of it is uh mostly
comments thank you everyone for tuning
in oops I'm sorry I found another Super
Chat here that we might have missed uh
Super Chat from Orange hexagon Sun would
it be possible to use a gamma ray laser
into an optical prototype to see in the
X-ray Spectrum like Superman
um you know the problem with again Ray
lasers you actually have to make one
first
um even like the the uh well I'm having
fun with this called my project
Excalibur that's when you set off a bomb
pump laser where it's basically a nuke
going off inside of a tube that turns
into a laser for one second that's in
the X-ray range not the uh gamma range
because we only have anything that we
know that reflects gamma rays
um the problem is if you can't actually
reflect it you can't make a laser out of
it uh if you could make a gamma ray
laser or a gamma reflective material
then Fusion becomes insanely easy so
it'll be something you'd very much like
to have but uh while you could certainly
use that to look through people I'm sure
you probably I mean to be a you'd
probably be able to find it to use a lot
of other ways where you go look at this
post and say oh they seem to have cancer
I don't think gamma rays will be want to
aim someone's way to look through them
like Superman though but I'd say
microwaves make a lot more sense now if
you're looking for the x-ray vision that
that Superman has that's really more
microwaves
and thank you Albert Jackson he says
thank you for hosting today Isaac great
answers as always and happy belated
Thanksgiving Happy excuse me
all right well if you don't have the
other question and uh John Michael
Gautier is also uh commenting on the
chat today as well and we have quite a
few people tuning in saying they were
late and they're going to watch it later
all right well on that note I will go
ahead and end the stream so we can have
everyone watch it later thank you for
putting up with me through the uh the
voice today and we will see you on
Thursday for
I don't know what the next episode is
I should would have been playing in the
background for the last 20 minutes so uh
we will see you on Thursday for
Thursday's episode until then thank you
for joining us and have a great week
so that will wrap us up for the day I
want to thank everyone for joining us
and again if we didn't get you a
question feel free to post as a comment
below and I'll try to get to it this
evening also you can continue the
conversation at any of the forums on
Facebook and Reddit Discord or our
website isaacartho.net
thanks for joining us and we'll see you
Thursday
