a clock orbit or clock belt named for
scientists and scii Alor C clock is the
generic term for a stationary orbit
around a planet or other body such as
geostationary orbit around Earth this
must be a circular orbit rather than an
ellipse and around the equator and is an
orbital period equal to the rotational
rate of that planet so a planet that
spins faster will have a smaller cling
these are enormously valuable and a
common location for communication
satellites and where we want put orbital
power satellites or the terminous hubs
of space elevators but also likely be
the single most valuable piece of
orbital real estate around any Planet as
such it is very likely be packed with
orbital habitats and infrastructure
which share that orbit and thus could be
physically connected by tethers or even
one massive combined Mega structure sode
lrange Point space settlements for
discussion of another unique and stable
Oasis in space
