good morning good afternoon everybody
and welcome to our monthly livestream
we're gonna go ahead and get started the
questions in just a moment it's the
usual format we get the microphone a bit
closer here and it's got a test the
audio real quick while you get your
questions up where you have quite a
schedule coming up for the next month we
actually have six episodes this upcoming
month so there's gonna be a lot of
material and we will go whether it was
on the break but we have quite a few
bonus episodes coming up and then of
course we'll move into August but still
waiting for the chat window to make sure
we got everything good and live one
second please
Courtney with Omaha again please get
questions now so I got the delay anyway
while I'm waiting for them to respond
risk or the schedule right now why not
for July 4th to celebrate the
Independence Day thing we're going to be
going ahead and doing episode on
synthetic meat and then we're gonna
follow that up with a episode space
tourism in the next week and then we've
got our sequence of compact episodes
we'll get Boyd ecology on a Sunday and
then we're gonna go and do episode space
whales and bioships
then we have a collaboration with Jay
from up an atom that's a channel I've
recommended a few times and that's gonna
be on Boltzmann brains and the anthropic
principle and from there we'll move on
to our next scheduled episode which is
invasive aliens and I'm not positive
what the dates gonna be for our next
live stream probably the last Sunday of
the month as usual but we'll see as we
get closely in the month and I'm still
uni questions up so we might have a
little bit of a lag problem let's
chicken see
a six-month we could stroll asunder live
when they will quick question I've heard
that I've heard arguments that nuclear
weapons are significantly less powerful
than popular believed thoughts on nukes
and the apocalyptic potential or lack
thereof that's actually a pretty fair
point
um nukes are very very strong weapons
obviously but at the same time you know
I was looking up how much explosives we
use on the 4th of July episode it's
about thirty kilotons a year and for
fourth of July alone and that's twice
the the actual power of the Hiroshima
bomb a nuke it can be very devastating
obviously there was very little in a way
of conventional explosives the pay
allows it but at the same time you could
be lying in a ditch a few meters deep
barely a mile away from you even the
biggest nuclear explosives and probably
live and so on it's not in that force
blast wave and you clear the area for
you to fall out it's pretty much a safe
thing you're not going to die from it
radiation is very powerful but it can
only go through so much and a lot of
them would be pretty attenuated just
trying to go through your house
the biggest threat with a lot of those
and it's actually kind of funny kids
voice I'm dating myself again if we were
kids in the Cold War you remember the
Duck and Cover get under your desk and
so that's the sort idea but actually
that was the very best thing you could
do you can only get at the desk of the
school and the windows blow out and the
glass was the most dangerous thing and
you get missed by that if you're under
your desk and then you have the issue of
following masonry things like that that
might hit you on the head or injure you
and the desk is gonna protect you from
that and so you know all probability
kids in the school zone you know Bailey
a killer meter for a fairly large blast
I'm gonna be just fine so long as you
get a malady from the fallout becomes an
issue and the other big danger of course
you'll want to look at the blast itself
because there's so much radiation coming
off that it will burn your eyeballs out
alright question from James McAlister
have you ever looked at the Orions arm
web site yes if so are there any
concepts aren't you find particularly
interesting and probable for the future
I'll be able to smug and say the ones I
find the most interesting terms are
Tikal was all the ones that have my name
at the bottom of them that's also I've
been a contributor under various names
to Ryan's home for a long time and um
for those of you date back a lot longer
than five years but for those of you
date back to when the show started about
five years ago the very first episode
megastructures that was a collaboration
myself and Steve Bowers in terms of the
artwork for that Steve Bowers was a
major artist for Ryan's arm and most of
those were images from the Alliance on
website and there's a lot of folks from
there like Konya that I know from
everyone today so great website by the
way Ryan's arm the story's it's it's an
open source fiction side the stories can
be of mixed quality but the the
Encyclopedia Galactica they have they
are on all the various make structures
and technology and things you can have
all it's not not CH and a lot of our
episodes I'll borrow to extrapolate on
top of those though of course a lot of
them also borrowed from science fiction
by both men us and so yeah I would
definitely recommend Orion's home to
anybody wants to get a better idea on a
lot of strange old mega structures and
what they might be used for even six of
nine asks we often focus on urban life
in the future what my you rural life
look like in the future oh yeah that's a
question that comes up a lot because I
live in a rural area myself and a lot of
my friends many of them do watch the
channel can I ask well what's it gonna
be like when I have oncology shortly and
a point you made in the economists
episode on planet-wide cities is that
even when you're packing trillions of
people and into a planet with giant sky
towers and things like that it's really
only our agriculture it takes a few our
houses fall if we talk about Suburbans
fall take up a very tiny percentage of
land it can be misleading when you think
about the amount of space involved on
those crews spent so much time driving
through a suburb and they tend to be on
straight lines away from the city not as
an actual Sokol out Ward human
habitation even if we all lived in you
know the classic one a core to two story
you know two thousand square foot house
does not take up much room there's about
thirty billion acres of land on the
earth and if everyone is trying for that
specific style themselves you're always
gonna have room at that point but you
have the layers option you've got the
skyscrapers option as to rural life
itself I don't know that we're gonna be
doing a lot of open
for me but long before we actually go to
the vertical farming thing you'd have a
lot of comfortable greenhouses and
things like that and at that point in my
own sake advantageous to do this stuff
as what go follow me so I think the
general farming life which might be
under glass dolmen greenhouses or not
has likely involve a lot more robotics
and your typical family farm a few
centuries ago was just a few dozen acres
usually
nowadays you know it's not unusual a lot
of my friends real farmers near they own
several hundred acres and they found
that with themselves or just a relative
a handful of employees because as
there's so much machinery to be used and
of course you do see a lot of
agriculture and trees so you know people
grow trees to grow vineyards we do these
plantations and nurseries so I think
that there would be a lot of a very
similar set up and if we stop doing
agricultural in open air like that I
think you'll probably see a big move to
more compact follow me anyway so
probably a lot of trees and a lot of
just general forested or grassy area
school up to the next one here by the
way thank you for bearing with me during
the initial tech palm is patrolled
mostly my folks dream ass hey what do
you think will be the most drastic
advance in technology in the next ten
years hmm you know it's always a hard
one to say I think maybe the biggest one
depending on how things advance would
actually be metamaterials
because those have such a powerful
option to change a lot of if you've seen
the metamaterials episode you probably
know what I'm talking about but that's
one of there's a chance to produce the
most real paradigm shifting technologies
obviously ones we'd love to see a better
power production metal power storage in
terms of price and and consistency for
batteries I'd love to see fusion somehow
get Purdue is still really cheap solar
panels and of course anything for life
extension is always meant afford
technology max2 boy asks if money wasn't
an issue and the technology was here
what two or three bionics would you get
forced not counting being able to live
forever that's assumed I guess I've made
that point enough times people know what
my force
choice for technology would be hmm which
bionics would I get I mean I don't know
if we really count I'm not really a you
know I'm not looking for the comic book
superhero augmentations Paul so I
wouldn't mind being as strong as
Hercules but it's not really something
I'm dying to get whereas something like
a really good health model system that
was able to track my biometrics really
accurately that would be welcome or hmm
what are the ones ah anything where was
no log mentation of course things let
you you know get his rested off of a few
hours of sleep or which were just
generally good at monitoring and
enhancing your brain function we were
very welcome things which kind of
enhanced vision or lets you uh easily
about video calls or show is right your
eyeballs or you eos we very welcome to
plasma soccer ask question have you seen
a new HBO show chernobyl if yes what do
you think I've not seen it so I would
speculate beyond that thank you as
Murrah what you think future religion
will be like when building a galaxy is
an afternoon project to keep the kids
busy PS my name is not nazma hmm you
know I I mean obviously we avoid
politics and religion on the show in
general I think um that my kinda my
opinion both politics and religion for
the future is that I just tend to assume
with post-scarcity civilizations and the
kind of spread out of light like you're
gonna have on almost any any concept to
or anything approaching a college up to
level own k3 society is you're gonna be
so spread out and so divulge n't and
there's actually good reasons to try to
be de for Junt which we'll talk about an
upcoming episode that you know you're
not really gonna have one system people
what you likely use and they might start
using another system just because it can
you know post-scarcity civilization
efficiency is a little bit less
important for how good your systems walk
so I think you are just going to see a
very large swath of them ranging on
pretty much any tract it's just gonna
depend on the cultural you might have
folks that are a very primitive always
style religions I probably shouldn't say
primitive
you know things like a revived wood a
Norse mythology for instance or Greek
mythology and you might have folks who
wore very staunch the atheist or
agnostic or all points in between
I would actually expect pretty much
every religion that severe now to stick
around for quite some time
Sam safe says is there going to be
epsilon super materials yes there will
be especially with me think about meta
materials from a couple minutes ago we
will be around during the episode super
material as a problem is that I'm not
sure it will be an episode there's so
much material and things like sonic
matter or super-strong materials that
whether or not it could fit in there and
then there was also the question is
whether or not you're gonna keep that to
a regular episode or put into the clock
tech episodes and the clock tech
episodes kinda like the alien
civilization series have sort of become
all I wanna say dumping ground but I'll
save space for going to things still
less hold SCI science and more science
fictiony you know we do try to keep it
scientifically grounded but we lo are so
speculate in the areas they have a
little bit less scientific reality to
them and I think with with super
materials we might want to go they or
two because we might want to talk about
things like adamantium or squid from the
Ring War series that super strong
material or the ring war was built out
of Andrew Walker ass my question is
there anything preventing us from
powering aircraft from antennas and
microwaves being from the ground no just
Tobi naming and that is a little bit
harder than it sounds like because you
do need a very powerful power source to
actually lock you need a very tight
powerful beam to really push the
aircraft along you know you're usually
talking about just for normal you know
1000 horsepower engine is very nearly a
megawatt engine and you need to get that
beam in pretty tight and you'd have to
keep it on tight which means you need a
very powerful power source or a very
accurate focus being that you could keep
locked on which is a lot harder than it
sounds like because things tend to buck
around yeah because it's not - not
really all that homogeneous or a medium
so if you've got a system that can blow
missiles out of the sky then you've got
a system that can talk with aircraft for
beaming powers then basically I don't
think we're quite there yet to do
anything that we really high-speed like
the Oprah thing as we're discussing
in Thursday's episode but for something
like a motive a slow-moving drone or
planned poacher sauce only with a very
low power requirement and very easy a
track hmm okay Andrew well we just got
the one for me into excuse me Nick Dodd
thank you he asked love your content
dude which existing or developing
technology do you think could most
effectively counter climate change hmm
without commenting on climate change in
general because that's a bit of a
controversial one if you're trying to
add or subtract heat in terms of like
countering existing effects that's where
you get into solar shades and mios those
are very handy and tale for me other
plants too so it's a good technology
look at and that could be handy even a
case we have a really powerful energy
source like fusion which wouldn't
normally say wouldn't negate the entire
problem of carbon-based economies but
you do start having that heat issue and
we would talk about ring water a few
minutes ago and they had the puppeteers
planet where they like a trillion people
and they move their plant file from the
Sun just so it wasn't over producing
heat and as a case we might use a solar
shade even though you had a zero carbon
footprint economy but anything that lets
you produce power cheaply and Kulpa
neutrally it's obviously a good one to
have they are lessons pumping out
methane which case that would be water
and then anything that lets you just
kind of cool the planet down and I would
tend to feel like we'll probably have
I'm not fusions always so hard to
predict I hate even say it's something
like twenty years but because you also
had to turn it into a cheap and
commercial source to not just get it
working in the lab alternatively I would
actually say if we had to right now just
for things like Falcon Heavy or bf all
we could actually either get enough
shades in orbit to significantly cool
the planet though you might be looking
at hundreds of billions or even low
trillions and totally getting that up
there and quite a lot to maintain that
because they won't last a forever so
it's not a one-time cost or to get
something I got moving based industry
setup where you could create shades out
of local stuff it's not that hard to war
sheet of aluminum on the moon and that's
most of your mass you could call your
guidance was
you launch in space from or so all
you're doing is extracting aluminum and
making sheets of aluminum and so I feel
like we need to do a crash project you
know trillion dollars sounds like a lot
and I did kind of pull that number out
of no way although I think I calculated
one point son but uh if you need to pull
the entire global economy it's just a
little short of a hundred trillion
dollars if you had it below say a
trillion dollars getting shades up there
one year and a hundred billion each year
to support that
that's very manageable I mean that's
that's a doable price and that is
something we had to price dropping the
cheaper that gets though the battle
Andrew like I asked if you could visit a
specific year or in the future what
would you choose and what about the past
that ones for the mods hmm you know you
thought as to go as far ahead in the
future as you could and I would not mind
popping into the Year 100 trillion just
to see if things was still going on and
there was anything like a civilization
left over because you know civilization
as the end of time is always talking
about these options for after the stars
but I would not mind popping into like
about a century at a time there's
something be said about not jumping too
far ahead and of course if you got some
technology lets you jump into the future
now that kind of implies that a century
from now they'll have that technology
too so you can do some more jumping and
go further ahead if you want to as for
the past I mean there's so many place
you'd want to visit and I guess depends
on what your motivation is if I had a
pic of time I was gonna get stuck in I
would say the 19th century just because
that's that was when the sciences were
going on of course I could sheet and
I've know much the sciences to invent
but um yes there's so much at that time
you'd actually learn and do everything
and get to know all the people actually
in the sciences that we're going on the
19th century that was I mean there's no
way to say when the modern age began
that's very arbitrary but to me that's a
very strong period I would love to have
been poet of although the my favorite
time of course of the past is yesterday
you know you the pass was not as good as
now we're gonna romanticize it but new
it's better now than any time in the
past
lucas de movie i don't pronounce Lucas's
last name hi Lucas
what is the most exciting subject of
research going on in materials
engineering in your opinion is the best
way to get into space-time physics
chemistry or ie for material engineering
I'd actually go for a straight physical
chemistry degree I mean you could get a
bachelor's in physics or chemistry or
Chemical Engineering enforced um but
even though I think you can get bashed
over some physical chemistry a lot of
places but I would say that's probably
the good area to go to if you want to do
serious research on it because it's good
to have that good baseline from both
physics and chemistry going into things
he's not a bad one if what you're
looking for is like semiconductors like
the professor I learned most of my stuff
on semiconductors for he got in his he
was our physics professor so they are
the Air Force Institute of Technology
down Dayton but economist ENIAC but yet
his bachelor's in mathematics and his
doctorate in electrical engineering and
for practical purposes that is pretty
much a degree in physics Oh doctorate in
physics oh that's a good for you to go
into if you're looking like semi
conductors or you know that kind of
material is there more electricity based
obviously thank you plasma software what
future space missions are you most
excited about yeah I mean I don't really
go all that excited about individual
launches um you know I'd love to see the
James Webb telescope last in fact we did
with James Webb telescope get launched
although these days it's mostly because
I assume that if I get to see that Lodge
it's because they'll invented live
extension the future of space mission I
probably were most looking forward to
only expecting of ones we were going
back to the moon or actually going to
Mars and I know I'm on record as saying
that I really think we should do the
moon in a serious way before we go
tomorrow I'd still be very excited CMOS
launch even if we hadn't done the moon
base yet and I do think we actually get
something like that next 10 to 20 years
I don't think we'll have one for you
know planned in the next five or six
though I think that we're not quite
there yet but in terms of enthusiasm an
awesome or anything else
Gordo's and ass do
think humanity is prepared for a
destructive disaster you know think
about a destructive disaster is that in
order to have one be destructive like
that it usually has to have a component
that you weren't expecting there's
always a bit of a black swan or
unexpected aspect to a lot of these
things now I mean you can predict a
whole cane coming to some degree and
clear people out thus they don't do as
much damage in terms of life you know
that you're allowed damage physically
and we know we're gonna hit so we often
limit the physical damage and Thomas
fail we construct stuff so we say really
destructor disaster like right now that
would be an asteroid a very big like
dinosaur killer asteroid but we're not
really prepared for that right now we
will be 40 50 years download as soon as
asteroid mine becomes a relatively
profitable industry you can assume that
asteroids we no longer be a threat to us
in a direct sense they might be an
economic threat but you know something
like a supernova there's nothing we can
do about that right now you know that
even that's something we'd have to wait
centuries before be in a position to do
much about just cuz that you have to be
so precise about piano to predict what's
gonna happen or any sort of protective
shield between you and it in time let's
see in terms of other disasters I'm the
only kind of disasters that can really
hit us that are artificial and we do
actually one episode coming up on this
soon that's the threats of you know
plants here threats to interplanetary
interstellar civilizations and you know
the thing that we notice a lot they are
is so that while there are some natural
disaster options almost every kind of
disaster you have is gonna be kind of a
man-made sort of thing kind of an
existential threat that we made
ourselves and obviously you either
prepared for that specific one it
doesn't happen or what's very mitigated
or it's really not a disaster alright
this is new ass hello Isaac could
large-scale stall lifting past five red
dwarfs by removing medals or would that
do no good um you would help but more in
the sense that if you are actually
engaging that level
lifting you're in a position to kind of
homogenized the thing a little bit while
you add it's you you know we don't
really talk about in the stall of the
episodes but sons fun activities solo
flavors things like that or not really
your friend when you're working on these
things and you are engaging in
technology and and and levels of effects
that would allow you to dampen out solar
flares or sunspots before they became an
issue in what respect to another so for
that same reason you should be at reduce
things like that with with a red dwarf
to calm it down to you know at that
point in time you will very much change
the game you have a stall your pointy
metal setup and that's great that's
wonderful and you point gas out of it
and you're stabilizing into what you
want though but in a lot of ways star
lifting is also stall tailoring you all
all between the thing to be fairly
artificial in many ways and they were
actually I don't know if we discussed
them much me in the episode yet there
are additional things you do with stall
lifting and some parallel technology is
that kind of change it around so that
gets a little bit debatable fancy fast
all anymore but much more of an
artificial structural but either cover
that off a wall mile do an episode on at
some point only piss books ass how far
away do you think the forced
interstellar missions are unmanned or
man I guess you could say we've already
done an interstellar mission although
it's gonna take seven thousand years for
it gets they are they a Voyager on
pioneer craft and left the solar system
assuming they survive the void intact
which they probably really will not
would count as no Stella mission and of
course whenever you're dealing with
anything that's going sub light and is
interstellar you have to decide is it
when it gets to its destination is it
when it leaves for its destination or is
it when you get the message back that
all that's gone well so you know it's
launching 2100 it gets Theo and 2300 and
you get the signal back in 23 15 you
know I
when was the interstellar mission
completed well I have an unmanned
wonderful so I mean that's just the most
logical way to go about it although
again it's kind of beatable what
qualifies as unmanned in a lot of those
cases if you're using a really
sophisticated AI
which i think would be a mistake in most
cases that's probably a person at that
point in time so it's not really
unmanned from a practical sense k-lol
Juna or i guess it was a when that would
happen we could have this century we
could actually launch genuine
interstellar probes I think that's a
possibility but we have to push pretty
quickly with our build-up for that it
doesn't require any truly advanced
technologies we've discussed the ones
through all of that but those are
infrastructure based things like still
azores you know if you want to send any
kind of probe that's big enough to
transmit back and get there and survive
the trip you need a very large set up
for that in terms of power it doesn't a
high tech but it does have to be big and
I'd be dubious if we get something like
that in place during the 24th century
but it's possible it's just is the will
they all kill Arjuna ask coffee drones
how soon the sooner the battle
James Rasmussen ass would you like which
would you like to colonize forest Mars
Venus or series hmm series
the thing is Morrison Venus don't really
give us anything you know you go to Mars
I don't want to say just to plant a flag
but there's no economic benefits there's
no industrial benefit to Mars or Venus
you know themselves back to earth and
developing space they can be very
powerful effects on interplanetary
economy down the road when they
developed but initially Odin flag plants
you know experimentation which you know
there's a lot of value science and
things like that or autumn around
building with prestige missions but
series actually offers us a toehold
that's valuable for basically developing
am I in the asteroid belt because does
have that water I stay available that
makes really good fuel and in a way
that's why in colonizing series we said
it wasn't so much that you're colonizing
serious that you're colonizing the
asteroid belt and those bigger ones like
Ceres are being used as kind of your
foothold place I don't even know that
those to be the first place you really
colonized in the asteroid belt but if
major settlement you know what they
think was genuine colony would be more
likely app around the bigger ones even
the other ones had stations at them
whereas with Venus and Mars you know and
Venus has is nitrogen that's valuable
stuff to be sure when your tail forming
but enough when you're making habitats
for instance mounted or or in the in the
asteroid belt because you can get enough
nitrogen from that either from Earth or
from the asteroid belt itself it's not
that we go stuff you need sources like
Venus or Titan for when you're trying to
tale form a planet or when you're
walking on actual Dyson swarm not when
you're doing holy development where you
really only need a nitrogen anyway for
where you're going plants at
specifically and it's not really all
that much that's that you need for that
so I don't know which we were actually
colonized for us but I would turn I
think the one that we puppy should be
looking to colonize for us would be
serious let's take one more question
before we go to a break
did you catch cool Wars David Kip Ian's
recent whitey upload and paper on
steroids and quasi its what are your
thoughts on the papal actually I'm doing
the read the paper yet
Stuart sent me the let me know about the
episode i wouldnt watched it and of
course the steroids and quasi it's the
quasi its concept we've already
discussed for you II did not know the
idea that simultaneous adventure didn't
steal anything like that but that's
we're calling lag i'ts liking satellites
and so and probably somebody else came
over the idea years and years ago to
steroids is from Robert for those are
the static satellites and when we'd
suggest in one of videos for like
beaming power back to earth was they
might use a lie guide which is a
combination of a solar sail with a
fairly heavy
satellite compared to the solar sail so
that it was orbiting but a little bit
slower was lagging behind or --ml orbit
for that distance so that it could stay
aligned like it was in a Lagrange point
with something like oh soap is a
transmittal and the same concept they're
quasi it's and there was of course a
paper on non clearing in orbits back in
2009 that she talked about something
very similar to that that I actually
don't know about two relatively recently
to so it's a great idea
quasi it's all a guy it's calm which are
one but great channel that's all square
the halo drive come from of memory
source which is also an interesting idea
we didn't come
the halo drive in black hole ships
because it's not like something you may
get ship out of but it is basically idea
of using a binary black hole for
slingshots so it's pretty neat one if
you can find a pair of those we usually
look at black hole proportional
colonizing in terms of making them
though so it's a bit of a different
angle we may look at at some point but
he did quite video on it anyway so just
watch that one stud the vo by left the
often accuse you of being too optimistic
about the future what is something
you're pessimistic about huh you know I
never think of myself as an optimist in
the first place and a lot of my friends
would really dispute that claim - I
usually do myself as a bit of a
pragmatic realist hope for the best and
prepare for the worst things I'm
pessimistic about in terms of future I
guess compared to like kind of a classic
Gene Roddenberry Star Trek idea I'm
actually pretty pessimistic about people
and think is I don't really think that
it's pessimism though because a lot of
our negative traits I don't see them as
bad things I only see them as bad things
when we don't care we let them off the
leash a little bit too much you know the
differential advice and of virtue is
often just degree and intent and I do
think that has a lot to do with maturity
of people and a culture so I guess that
makes me optimist anyway but hmm because
the I'm pessimistic about really is is
that we actually find intelligent life
in this galaxy where new yorky or that
didn't originate here because I mean I
am a big old Star Trek fan I'd love to
actually meet some friendly alien
civilizations out there but I tend to be
pretty dubious we all have them anyway
let's go ahead and head to a break get
your questions in while we're gone and
we'll be back in a few minutes so while
we're taking a quick break I thought we
hit the upcoming schedule or you're
quick but before we get to that this is
a great time to get some more questions
in the queue and do try to watch the
spelling and grammar and keep them
concise we've got quite a packed
schedule coming up in July between now
and our next live stream for regular
Thursday episodes plus two bonus
episodes
we will start the month with a look at
synthetic meat on July 4th and a look at
space tourism in the neo and more
distant future on July 11th the week
after that
we have a two-part episode on Sunday the
14th and Thursday the 18th we will be
looking at life that might evolve will
be tailored to live in the vacuum of
space what we call void ecology then
look at the idea of living ships and
space whales on Sunday that twenty
forests will be teaming up with Jade
from up in Adam to explore the concept
of bossman brains and the anthropic
principle the notion that an
intelligence might emerge by random
chance but also the possibility that
they may be a lot more common than we
think and may be a lot closer to home
than we realize
we will then close out the month with a
what tones the alien civilization series
to examine the notion of alien invasions
both overt and covert and what might
motivate that and how it might happen
then finish off with our end of the
month Q&A so that's a lot of SF ia for
July and that busy schedule wouldn't be
possible without a lot of support from
our audience and a lot of tireless walk
by volunteers on the show like Ken York
who all toured over to you for a minute
before we get back to our livestream hi
guys this is Ken York again one of the
animators for Isaac Arthur who was nice
enough to let me promote my technical
animation patreon page here what I do
basically is produce free technical
animations to clearly visualize certain
concepts sometimes content creators like
Isaac Arthur need to show how something
works in detail but it can be hard to
find good resources online and it's
really expensive to have a video made
properly by a graphics design agency who
might not even understand the underlying
technology so I decided to create a
model where I generate technical
animations and give them away for free
to content creators like Isaac Arthur
and academia media outlets and tech
companies that have good ideas I'm a
software engineer by training and I've
developed this graphics engine
specifically to make explanatory tech
animations like these
so anyways there's a huge list of tech
concepts we really want to animate
properly but since it's a very
time-consuming process I started this
patreon page for a financial support
also through patreon I'm trying to build
up an interactive team of advisors in
various science and engineering fields
if you see something in this list or
anything else that you can help out with
please let me know of course anyone can
contribute and I would appreciate
feedback from anyone once again my name
is Ken York and I go by yd visual on
patreon link below in the description
feel free to email me - if you have any
questions thanks again and see you in
the future
okay in we're back Thank You Milson what
are your thoughts on must criticism of
O'Neill habitats namely that is
ridiculous when you consider the
logistics of transporting that much mass
I absolutely agree when we talk about
O'Neill cylinders and mega structures
there is always a context for this it's
not just can you transport a Giga ton of
mass and and the smaller size O'Neill so
knows that's about what you're looking
at a Giga ton remember it's still pretty
expensive for us just move a few tons of
stuff into space and this is a billion
times that you don't source stuff like
that from our earth you're sourcing half
of the Moon or asteroids and in order to
to be able to do that you need a lot of
automation not just a build thing that
people would be involved in the
construction that's something we'll talk
about in a few weeks or something next
month and make a structural maintenance
but you need that automation to engage
in your mining you need those small
parts that can do you know 99% of the
walk so that you're not having people
for gee metals you want to see the
people in your steel industry or in your
transportation industry or mostly just
quality control you know they are there
they are watching a giant factory that's
doing almost all the walk the thing is I
tend to feel like that's the only way
space travel really becomes viable in
the first place with a lot of automation
although I like to point out a lot of
automation does not an essay mean it's
really sophisticated AI you do not need
to be a very small computer to to scoop
up aluminum and dort and turn that into
a piece of plate and then fly to some
location maybe a bit smaller than Alcorn
ones all but really not even that much
smaller software thing the ability to
make factory is that make robots that
make more robots that make stuff is kind
of where you're going to that zone for
automation once you have that it I don't
want to say it destroys the economy but
it completely shifts the paradigm if you
were to ask folks back in ancient Rome
what they think of a railroad track and
a train you know they knew what a steam
engine was at least not kind of a loose
sense they understood the idea of
machinery the thing that probably most
unbelievable to allow them would be that
you would have
thousands of kilometres of steel rail
because steel wasn't seen the expense to
make back then mmm when it certainly
became cheap oh it wasn't all that long
for here but was cropped up Oh a
superstructure super skyscraper stores
showing up and that's kind of same thing
with automation a lot of things that we
think of as being impractical as much
says you know it's not all that
practical to build on your cylinder I
think that's something a keith henson
one of the folks who was walking with
trot on you ought to cover the idea in
the first place I had mentioned as well
is that this is not viable right now
it's not something should be about math
right now if something goes on a map
when we have better automation we have
much cheaper power supplies and it's
something you start building after you
have no Pro infrastructure you don't
build a skyscraper in 18-49 in in
California you had a way to have a
population industry built up there but
if it's just a matter of talking your
Holy Mass well fundamentally that's just
energy and if you're a big spike energy
and we've got a gigantically huge Sun
right nearby that poor energy foam then
suddenly an issue anymore curious
chocolate or caramel sauce on ice cream
you know I actually don't like caramel
that much I do like chocolate on ice
cream mint chocolate chip is pub well
generally any type of ice cream or
dessert that has chocolate and
especially dark chocolate is usually my
favorite I don't dislike him oh but I'm
not a huge fan of it strange question
Robert Jackson asks question do you
think launch costs will come down much
for though with conventional rocket
technology or do we have to wait for a
space elevator orbital ring I think we
could actually see launch cost and about
$100 a pound if they can you know we had
the recent launch with the Falcon Heavy
where they almost managed to get the
core landed and they've been having a
quite a problem doing that but we always
said you know a couple decades back that
the big snowball into space would hit
when you got launch cost down about
$1,000 a pound for payload and that's
about where we're getting to about about
now and we will get there more with
economy of scale and you say well
there's not been a snowball yet I tend
to feel that we already in that
snowball that you know that avalanche
into serious space exploration expansion
we just haven't really realized I get a
lot of times you're in the middle of it
and you don't see it until hindsight you
know the force people putting factories
up in England during the industrial
evolution or what they call them one
before that the industrious revolution
those folks did not call they or that
they don't really realize that they were
at this huge game-changing level for
Humanity and I think that we've already
hit that and I do feel like you know
we're coming about the fiftieth
anniversary of Apollo and a few weeks
here and of Apollo 11 and I don't know
we're gonna date it from then that the
space exploration hit over well maybe
data or something like SpaceX coming
online but I think we can bring launch
costs down probably about a factor of 10
if we just get much better and a new
economy a scale with reusable rockets in
terms of landing them and mass producing
them and I do think that is enough for
our purposes but that gives you up the
space we all sleep at an orbital ring
they're not complex technology but they
like the rail boat which you just don't
build them into you have a very large
demand for mass cuz they are big
expensive and large and you have to
maintain them like a highway
they're very economic if you're shipping
megatons of material to and from the
surface but you actually need to have
megatons interior ship back and forth as
the space elevators though it's one of
these is what we don't spend all that
much time on them on the channel they're
very handy on a place like the moon
maybe even on a place like Mars but they
don't have a very high throughput you
can only have as much mass on one at a
time is going to not rip that thing
apart and it's 24,000 kilometres long or
longer than that sorry that's a long way
to run a thing before you can put the
next load on so not to say I mean if we
do get the material to make those so
it's very very valuable but I'd still
say the orbital ring is a lot more
valuable than the space elevator mihaylo
is an ass how do you think the next 100
years of space exploration and
colonization will look any chance we'll
see more videos about these topics we
will by the way feel free to get some
more questions and apparently we're
running loaded
so it's summertime everyone's off doing
things not watching the show we do have
coming up in late September yeah late
September a spring time at mo middle of
September or spring time on Mars and
that would be y'all we're 200
colonization in the solar system about
to the near future although that's
probably low but beyond X we're looking
at tail for me for that one that we do
the space truism episode coming up next
next next week and that's gonna look at
the near future but I do get asked
sometimes about doing new or term stuff
and it's not that I don't like to do new
your term
episodes it's that I usually like to
start with a technology and if it has
something in the next 20 years I'm
finally looking at that but I don't like
to stop there I like to keep going to
see how far off in the future we can
push it a lot of our technologies that
we discuss here it's not that we don't
start 20 years from now because it's boy
and we start don't start 20 years now
because we can't do it in 20 years we're
not gonna do stall at the end 20 years
no point and even contemplating that
into like the year 3000 as a war um but
whenever we're looking something like
colonization exploration I don't wanna
just stop one century two things I want
to keep going and see what its gonna
look like way further down the road
let's see 2 - a selfie ask Isaac do you
think we as humans have anything
interesting to offer to an advanced
alien civilization that's actually part
of our topic of invasive aliens in a
couple of months or one a month or so um
into the month in the next month I lose
track of schedule here let's see do we
have anything interesting to offer
advanced civilizations to know what an
advanced alien civilization wants you
have to ask what it does not have and
you know we're not valuable to them as a
labor force
we're not valued with them it's a food
source we're not value which them as a
technology source and we're not valuable
to them is a material source if they're
around because nobody's busy to sembly
whole planets and star systems that we
can see which means they have no reason
to do that or they don't exist and then
earth is not only fairly mundane in that
regard it's actually one of the places
you last hit
because it's very heavy gravity well and
you always want to get all you other
targets forced arguably even a star
force to a star lifting because you're a
power supply for your mind you right
there so what does that leave you to
having Justin North for and they have to
have an interest and say are all to our
culture and it doesn't have to be the
entire alien race that is into that you
know we have a lot of civilizations on
this planet I can't even name I know
there's something like 200 some odd
countries in the UN and I feel pretty
good like a puppy named after them
and I probably recognize 90% of them on
our list and inside each of those
cultures they are tons of our
subcultures they are tribes in the
Amazon who I would not like as name of
and neither what most of us and I'm no
particulars I'll go visit them
personally but there are entire
anthropology divisions all universities
that would love to go visit them and
remember when we're talking about
interstellar civilization a Kardashev
scale civilization they have more
anthropologists than we have people you
know so there was gonna be someone who's
interested in all you know all you know
cultural you know history you know video
games you know TV shows in wine because
they don't have wine on their planet or
in you know wood because they don't have
trees they or whatever it is we will
have things that they do not have as
curiosities and you know we be
interested in alien species so I don't
really think there'd be any reason why
they wouldn't either now they have a
different psychology than us but there
are two things we can say that most
alien civilizations would tend to have
beyond what would normally evolved like
a desire to survive but one of those is
a sense of curiosity you're not gonna
get technology without that doesn't help
small show you're not just going to
suddenly decide if you got how Star Wars
what kind of pinpoints a light in the
sky
if you don't curious about what they do
and the other is that they tend to
probably be very interested in people in
general because you don't build a
civilization without our cooperation
which means a social group so probably
almost every if not every intelligent
species in the universe or multiverse is
probably gonna be social and curious
that might not be friendly but that
might tilt that way too
see David SS as vo technology improves
what fraction of label in low-earth
orbit
do you think will be done in person
versus tell operating humanoid or
non-human robots it sounds kind of hard
to guess with them you know a lot of
times in science-fiction the moment we
said we've got robots there's an
assumption that the robots do pretty
much everything we've been inventing
better and better robots for generations
now and we still have a lot of people
actually physically in the factories
doing stuff do you know a bottleneck on
a lot of our production is complexity it
costs a lot to make something complex
and so people go for something cheap or
even though we can make something better
because it's more economical the better
you get with your automation the more
sophisticated you can start doing
because you don't have to use your main
manpower creativity or cast on the
simple parts so you start seeing more
complexity and that would tend to stay
ahead of the AI and you might have a lot
of tell our plate machines I think you
probably would but I think any think you
have a lot of robots like goombas doing
the cleaning you know nobody wants to go
to space to scrub toilets although a lot
of us would volunteer to do that right
now just to give the space but that's
that same thing we always had with AI at
a certain point it gets to be a kind of
a human level III and you either do with
just another person who is therefore not
a robot or you're got that horse slavery
issue or tailing something so that's
kind of an idiot savant it's very good
at something but doesn't have any normal
human motivations and identity that's
fairly dangerous ground to go playing
around with ethically and then as well
as was as a direct command you know
don't let Skynet loose game crasher ass
was the worst FTL system in sci-fi and
which was the best you know it depends a
lot on what you'll what angle you
approach it from from a scientific
perspective there are not a lot of good
FTL systems because there's not a good
basis for them usually the best one
you're gonna have from a science
perspective would be something like a
hypo space we're just jumping into a
pail that all congruous dimension you
can run through the fast or or wormhole
but those 10
- well portrayed but from like a
storytelling point of view I think the
ones from Stargate were really nice same
for Peter Hamilton's wormholes in the
Commonwealth Saga where you're jumping
from planet to planet as opposed to
using a spaceship mmm it's very good
storytelling I think for the military
sci-fi perspective the gravity waves
idea that we saw in David Webb was on a
voice or the nose you jump to on the
edge of a solar system like the
Mandeville points that we see in in
Warhammer 40k or in Larry Nivens Moton
cards I Larry Niven cherry pinellas walk
they're just structurally in terms of a
storytelling apparatus I think all very
good ones um but as to a fictional
system using FTL and what I'd say is a
realistic way I really couldn't think of
one there are some really I mean like
June had a really good one but I'm going
to call that realistic per se in terms
of really bad one that's hard to say
because there's just so many really
awful ones in the science-fiction I
would often say the very best FTL system
in sci-fi is we barely bother to explain
how it works at all just cuz it doesn't
even raise the specter of scientific
realism you know and stuff like Star
Wars or Isaac as most foundation they
barely mentioned how the stuff walks and
that's probably a good way to go from a
storytelling perspective um I guess my
favorite that would actually the one we
came up with for Hades 9 I like that one
7 III asked question do we have existing
examples of something that works like
orbital rings one part moves fast
another separate part moves slow and
together stays in orbit I mean we don't
actually have anything in orbit that
does that um you know a pipe is an
example of an orb rolling in terms of
the structure her walk stationary thing
and suddenly fast moving through it if
you take a hose and you string it
between some points so it's all saggy
and you're torn on it stiffens up that's
that's exactly how an opening walks
basically obviously you're not using
regular friction material should be
using something like a magnetic coil and
a you know bike chain link or just a
coil of a metal there's nothing really
sophisticated about that though I think
it's
I think because it seems like a really
huge object and a really powerful object
for getting into space that people
assume it's really sophisticated but a
lot like the Chicago thrust or there's
nothing sophisticated it's just big
you know Chicago cluster is just a bunch
of meteors around a stove the idea of
moving a star seems ridiculous but if
the technology is really simple or using
a black hole for power making the black
horse tricky but if you already have one
nearby can even power off it is stupidly
easy big ones just dumb but it matter
down into it and absorb the radiation
making a very efficient it's a little
bit trickier but if you don't care that
much about efficiency and even a very
inefficient memory but on infusion
that's really easy to do same for all
orange there's a there's probably a lot
of difficulty actually in the walk but
especially what you try to use
superconductors and you don't have a
meta material that's gonna stop magnetic
fields but there's nothing really all
that sophisticated out the idea space TV
eass if you were to meet an alien what
would be your force question hmm huh you
know you say that the force questions
you should ask in a force context no it
should be designed to see how much
they're going to lie to you which
hopefully it's not at all Nina very we
don't want to scare you off kind of way
they already know everything they need
to know about you if they'll be you on
your own term same as we would know if
we were busy a more primitive
civilization we would have resourced the
heck out of them forced it so by the
time we're ready to meet them we not
only know their language but we know
everything we need to know about how
they're gonna react we know how to deal
with the situation with for them but on
an only dose would and the same is way
true for any alien so you know the
meeting circumstance you're having with
them you have to ask while they're gone
for that particular way of meeting you
so I think in a lot of those cases the
first question you want to be asking if
you meet an alien is why do you look
like an alien as opposed to an Android
or how long have you been here how long
have you been watching us how long have
you been on this planet who you want to
see if it gonna lie to you perhaps you
know you don't want to give it away per
se that you've figured out they up to
something nefarious if that's what the
case happens to be
zees zealot asked oh and thank you some
thoughts on using methane for hydrogen
storage the problem was strong hydrogen
as kids noted is that hydrogen on
dihydrogen tends to go through almost
everything it's very tiny so it's really
hard to store the stuff I promise to me
kind of damaging on the materials around
it it leaks a small particles not well
contained inside materials so something
like methane it's a pretty good way to
store that you know you got what
hopefully I don't mess that up for four
hydrogen atoms one carbon atom um and
that's a good ratio of hydrogen to
carbon although it's worth noting in a
case like that you're still storing more
carbon than you are hydrogen so that's
maybe not ideal for a fuel tank where
you need to worry about how much mass
your scary amount like a rock and you'd
rather store pure hydrogen rather than
having slightly over half your mass B :
right
but for storage for things like hydrogen
cells which is long-term storage a
methane is a great way to store it
carbon is pretty common
I think its fourth or fifth most common
elements after a hydrogen helium and
oxygen I think maybe ion so if you're
trying to store hydrogen somewhere where
you don't have a lot of gravity hold it
in place
methane you know inserting a little
carbon and that's probably a really
great way to store it for the long term
as for rockets that's just can you find
a way to store it faster then it's going
to leak out and use this straight
hydrogen or do you need to be a lot
longer in which case you know meeting
will be a good approach we're go to a
switch sci-fi universe would you like to
live in the most hmm which is I find you
not Warhammer 40k hmm miss thing you're
the my favorite science fiction settings
I would not want to live in my favorite
one which is our stove I know it's
revelation space very dark place I
wouldn't want to live in the Foundation
series universe because the relevant
Dark Age for my asthma I would want to
live in a dune universe it's pretty dog
too maybe the one from Orson Scott
Card's into his game series after the
war was over that seems to be not really
utopian but pretty nice
so let's see I mean what usually makes a
sci-fi universe interesting is a little
bit of conflict which generally means is
not too utopian so not necessary the
place I'd want to live we've got time
for a few more questions all nuclear
reactors right now are glorified steam
engines is there a better way to utilize
fission not that we've come up with yet
I mean
LTG is for instance don't use water to
run things and you don't actually have
to use water as your working medium but
all tgs are not very efficient you're
looking at you know six to ten percent
efficiency it was a react or typical
water you know steam engine with the
working fluid of water can do 3 to 50
percent I think um don't quote me on
that there are working mediums that
typically aren't worth the effort but
can do better than a molten salt is
actually a great example of one I can do
better than me wise but you're not
really using losing that much of
efficiency and latency miss but like
photoelectric effects those are not
super efficient I though you do have
that fundamental problem of you can only
get so efficient with your engines to
with a heat engine in general so I don't
think there's really a better way to
utilize fission in general just right
now other than if you want a really
compact things stuff like an all TG is
the best way to go
kilink oakland asks there was a lot of
investment going on in space mining
fields when do you think we will
actually see this as a meaningful
industry 50 years or olio I would be
surprised if it wasn't going on inside
50 years
um but I do think we have a bigger
chance of seeing some effort into it
maybe as soon as a decade from now but
probably little bit for though ahead
it's not gonna come as a huge surprise
when it happens and the question is
really is something going to do
something that certainly makes it very
economic to do it in which case there be
a rush hour Gold Rush
or is it gonna be able those things
where someone's trying that force job
you know kind of build up interest in it
that might be a bit more risky and we'll
see which way that goes forced okay
Norwegian ization asks what kind of
benefits would a cylinder shape craft
have
I mean the major reason why you want a
cylinder shaped one is because you want
that artificial gravity but you also
want a really thin cross-section and a
long skinny needle is one of the best
cross-sections you can have for a
spaceship I think I've said in the past
that cylinder is it but it's really more
that so no but a nose cone you do want
that deflection on debris that is the
kind of main advantage there is it's
relatively compact thing you can squeeze
lawn to a circle that's just really long
and of course the idea is you can spin
that so then it doesn't actually mean
the spaceship would be a cylinder shaped
you could have a cylinder or habitat
inside of one that was say asked way or
something like that but generally what
you want is as long symmetric and and
and skinny for any kind of spacecraft it
just walks out battle ok last question
would take thank you space TV how do you
think you would respond if an advanced
alien civilization offered to uplift you
to their level of intelligence I'm not
sure I'd actually say yes solely not a
right-of-way
you'll be very tempting awful um
obviously I mean but at the same time I
tend to be of the opinion that the rapid
or major change to to who you are and
towards your mind is kind of a certain
form of suicide you know it's a tree is
still a tree when it grows and adds some
more leaves and things like that but no
matter how slowly you do it if you turn
it into a table that tree is gone that
there's now a table they are even if
that table has made entirely of that
original wood for that one tree so but I
think that I probably would actually say
yes and the end on something like that
but not without giving a lot of
consideration and preferably not being
the first one to do it
there's always to be somebody who's more
than anxious to try it first and they
are welcome to do so
alright so we're gonna go ahead and go
over the schedule again real quick and
then we'll sign off for the day coming
up in July again on July 4th we've got a
synthetic meat option but oh thank you
fab X for the what do you want last one
possible cast to cool off by screen it
I assume by that you mean how much would
it cost to get something to look around
one orbit and that was big enough to be
a shade that's maybe not the best place
to be putting one though it's not too
bad shouldn't we have that expansion
cone the same way you tend to expect um
going to the Lagrange points more
expensive but it may be more stable and
if you're launching from the moon it
depends are you sourcing your shade
material from the moon or you're
sourcing it from Earth if your source
given the moon yeah go to the lounge
point at that point cheaper than sending
out forth but it just depends on how
much shading you want to do you're
talking about making potentially
thousands if not millions of square
kilometres of shares I've strayed so how
much does tinfoil cost four square
kilometres away and how much does it
cost to launch that much and how much
does it cost to make it on the moon we
can't really ask me something like that
right now but usually run the various
numbers you're gonna come up with
something well at the app 100 billion so
so closing our schedule for today um
synthetic beard on July 4th and then we
have space tourism coming up on July
11th and then we have a void ecology
episode the Sunday right after that on
July 14th followed by our space whales
and bioships episode on on the next
Thursday after that then another bonus
episode or a pair of them with with Jade
from up an atom on Boltzmann brains and
then we have our invasive aliens episode
on the last of the last Thursday of the
month for having our next next live
stream which will get scheduled before
then but we will probably be the same
time same last Sunday's before anyway
thank you for joining us and again
apologies for the early technical
problems we'll see you on Thursday
