good afternoon everyone and welcome to
the SFI a monthly livestream Q&A we'll
get started in just a moment but go
ahead and start getting your questions
in the chat window so I'll Monterey OHS
can start relaying those to me as soon
as we start please try to keep the
questions concise and watch your
spelling and try to be polite to others
in the chat we usually go for about an
hour so you probably want to grab a
drink and a snack though we'll take a
break about halfway through to with all
that said welcome and let's get started
good afternoon everybody will be getting
started in just a moment here but as we
get through some of the technical device
make sure things actually still going
good in the new studio we'll be into
your questions just a moment so go ahead
start putting those in the chat window
for Mario's to go ahead and let us know
what's going on and what your questions
are and she'll be getting your beauty
but I'll say by my wife Sarah who is
joining us today say oh say hello hi
hopefully with the microphone is
actually walking this time so we're just
waiting for my own to get some
confirmation as to what kind of
questions we got coming in and without
the audio is walking if you aren't too
familiar with what's going on for the
schedule this upcoming month you'll be
able to see that and you have a window
as we go and those were the upcoming
episodes we have going on for this
upcoming month if you have missed any of
our recent ones go ahead and look
through the video all kinds to see which
ones you feel I've seen I believe last
week's episode was impact of graphene
and so the upcoming week's episode is
going to be common sized muti habitats
and if I have a chance locust other
things bigger than iPhone you're so
indoors such as the McAndrew stone or
the bishop rings it's a populous and so
on and with that in mind let's go ahead
and get your questions
it's simply confirmed by the way will I
believe that we are streaming I do see a
thumbs up okay we're just waiting on
questions for my words as we get through
the technical stuff going on here and we
are alive let me see if I can pop over
that window video on YouTube yet okay
nobody on YouTube yet okay anyhow can
see the stream so we've got used to
yourself that lets us talk back and
forth ivy was actually involved in the
moderation these days
still kind of getting stuff as we go and
so I would just randomly talk for a
couple of minutes so we'll be looking at
what we could actually do to build those
space f-test we just mentioned with
graphene like the McAndrew soda or the
bishop ring and some of the bigger ones
like the banks over or two it's not
sweet graphene limited but once we ask
you in this month we're going to come
with all the raw materials for that and
of course the usual idea is the December
the solar system and we'll be looking at
that this this month too and dismantling
the solar system so as we continue go
through the technical glitches they just
seem like thinking every time we get new
audio-visual technology there's always
this big long delay and trying to make
it walk smoothly and as soon as it does
start to walk smoothly of course we get
a new better system that walks even less
smoothly okay so I think we have a
fourth question yes the first question
today is from Simon farmer how do you
balance risk and life extension
techniques I guess if you mean that in
the sense of experimentation like what
is it acceptable to actually use a life
extension technology like how long do
you wait there was this old pilot for a
TV show Island City or something similar
where they'd unleashed the zombie
apocalypse by giving obey the life
extension technology before had have
been properly proved and of course given
that to really properly prove something
like life extension technology you might
have to wait you know centuries to find
out there could be some issues with that
on the flip side the risk issue though
there's question is how do you stop
balancing risk in your own life when you
have a much much longer life for
instance you know I'm going to live to
be say a thousand years old ward if I
have a 1% chance of dying every year
from a car accident then after I think
it's 73 years or study was 71 years
you'd be at the point where you had a
50/50 chance of dying that cumulative
odds and risks that suddenly seems like
a much bigger risk if something's got a
1 a million chance of killing you
every year then after all was seventy
seven hundred ten thousand years you
presumably be 50-50 chance of dying and
nobody would not kill you no that's
that's the odds of dying a normal
lifetime that would be
you know percent of a percent but if
you're living to be 10,000 years that's
only a much bigger risk if you're living
to be a 10 million years that's suddenly
a certainty that's what's gonna kill you
so I think if you've got a much longer
life span and say we never talked about
immortality if there's a finite chance
you die you will eventually die and of
course the energy keeping you running
would eventually run out too so one way
or another they were still clock we
never knew what immortality just life
extension and I think in some ways we
already see that a known society we live
a lot longer than we used to and you
know we take less with so many ways to
so that people don't tend to die from
anything other natural causes in old age
nearly as much that used to wear as dine
of all age even a century toe is still
not the normal the next question is from
Albert Jackson this is a slightly
technical or specific question but how
many pages are your scripts on average
you know I don't usually double line
them so the average script count would
count is usually about 90 to 4,000 words
is why I usually start think I need to
wrap this script up if I haven't already
got at that point you know Adam probably
another three to four hundred for the
sponsor and announcements we usually or
the end of episodes but that can be I
would say it's fused about eight pages
Google Docs but we've done one as long
as twelve before forgiven episode of
course the following paradox compendium
runtime 74 minutes that is considerably
longer but that's about the ward count
four thousand pay four thousand words to
six thousand would be like a forty
minute video going back to the topic of
life extension cam k asks how long would
you choose to live if we developed life
extension technology hmm you know
there's always a question what you mean
by choose to live if life starts being
boy and I tend to be very against
suicide so I think that's why I always
say if you don't like your life then you
can either jump off a bridge or if
you're the opponent that you start
taking increasing you risky behaviors
all those risk of other things you've
not been doing in recent centuries to
live longer like Oso example you start
taking up hunting lions with the north
bat and just see how it works out for
you or skydiving you have an oar blowing
into a tank full of sharks but one way
or another you keep up whisky enough
habits you eventually get taken out but
I don't know how long would I want to go
until I I would get there I just you at
some point I get bored and in fact it
was I got 10 years of boredom I couldn't
find some way myself us less bored I
just keep taking riskier and crazy or
hobbies up and tired or wasn't bored
anymore was a body more for a more
terminal business huh
Corey Austin says do you consider
yourself a philosopher um you know just
thinking that all the doctorates that
you have people in science all phd's
doctorates philosophy um and physics in
fact if you look at other languages they
feel physics often called natural
philosophy in the olden days it was
natural philosophy so I suppose in that
sense yes and we all have something
philosophical tendencies but uh you know
my philosophy shelf on my library over
here I think is not even quite a full
shelf so no I probably have more books
on philosophy than you do but those
positive heroic victory says do you have
a favorite Thunderbirds craft and do you
have any pointers for how we could set
about building one
you know I'm remembering the
Thunderbirds to see might even think of
the same thing as you all as they old
claymation TV series that I did not
watch so I don't have a specific
favorite craft that's what you're for
your focus
Zev Onix says how would multiple empires
of different species coexist you know we
did do that coexistence with alien
series of one nebula which are all
eventually import over the main channel
but it's kind of exclusive there for
papier year but we did try to look at
things like trade and warfare and
alliances there's the question of how
alien is alien you know we have this
tendency from our own past of
exploration and from you know sci-fi
that tends to be a bit over the Wild
West in modern times or sci-fi times of
assuming that you can just go to an
alien eventually you can find some way
to peacefully coexist and share with
each other this is probably not true in
the sense of you know to hang out with
each other on the same you know we have
a really complex psychology that we base
off of all sorts
Christiane's customs and cultures share
biology if you stop dealing with the
saya species that has a thousand young
every time it gets both they are
probably and have a very different
attitude on things that can fantasize
than we do
and those may not really be those maybe
things you can avoid going to war with
each other mostly because you stay away
from each other and don't think about it
certain cultures and customs that we
might encounter with aliens might be so
alien that we just can't tolerate each
other except by staying away and you
know you might get to a point where
you've kind of self quarantine you don't
have shared borders you don't do
different math between each other you
see each other toss messages back and
forth of we hope you're doing well
we don't want to talk to you though of
that much haha and we know you don't
want to talk to us so that might be the
future I hope not but it could easily be
the case
Stephen zinc says how tall are you if I
may ask sake now is my y59
so I do not know if not my head but that
is in centimeters but five nine and how
many centimeters that happens to be so
Jordan is humanoid form the best
physical form life can get to evolve to
our level of intelligence and
technological advancement I mean
presumably since we have things with us
that go wrong there is a potentially
battle form we could have one
modification what we have but you know
if you looking from that standpoint we
are here we've got all the necessary
equipment for it so resume Lee was the
best one evolution was likely to pop up
but I couldn't potentially do a
different way of doing it um it was for
what the best form is that's you know
you can't really look at evolution from
that kind of perspective it's the one
that is the one you have that develop to
this so informants would not conceivably
be able to do that but you had to have a
way of interacting with the ward
something along the lines of hands you
need to be able to have that high
density data transmission by something
like your eyeballs that you really see
what's going on or you know hear what's
going out of your really good sonar and
then you got to have all that brain
capacity for you to sort that and it has
to be a survival advantage and every
little you know step of that so is there
a better form we could potentially have
our you know I don't know that's really
the best may be looking at that sort of
question but the only one we have is the
most Advan tage
just for intelligence Courtney on the
planet so Ivan Petrovich what are your
thoughts on plausibility of
nanotechnology as usually portrayed in
science fiction aren't bacteria already
operating on the lowest possible size
for a functioning creature probably not
quite the lowest size we didn't look at
that a bit in the santa claus machine
and self-replicating machines um you
could probably go small like viruses are
a very good example of very simplistic
simple machine but that's working inside
a specific biological context we could
pick things low bits story oh if we used
certain metal compounds or say graphene
maybe and then just depends on how
complex the machine had to be we should
be able to engineer something that
walked at least one order of magnitude
beneath what we think was the the
microscopic bacteria and viruses going
much below that that stalkin
questionable you start having also say
issues like the sticky fingers problem
but actually your touch things and just
the general complexity but you have to
keep in mind when you think like a human
cell depends on what kind of salad is
most of our blood cells which are quite
small but we think of a human cell you
think of a very tiny thing we think of
that in terms of atoms picture an animus
a building block or concrete cinder
block you might say okay well the the
the cell is the building that's made out
of those atoms no the cell is the city
of which various buildings are made out
of those bricks from atoms much much
tinier than cells cells are huge they
are the smallest thing might qualify as
a mega factory built out of little
blocks of atoms brick size the bigger
ones would qualify as an metropolis they
are huge can we make something small in
that probably using those rocks probably
yes but whether or not we can make
something self-replicating is
sustainable that's much fun that my
guess would be we find big problems
trying to go much more than an order of
magnitude smaller thank you for that
analogy the next question is from cosmic
Explorer 101 how would a galaxy spinning
city work a galaxy spanning city work
how would a galaxy spanning city walk
slowly
the well now you could crush that galaxy
down to a much
thing right galaxies are not really all
that dense I think we looked at and this
is will give them like the Balch planet
which is galaxies mass what can be as
much as galaxies mass or I think we call
it a globule red swarm things when Steve
Bowser I came with the idea of just how
many storage good micro size and crunch
torneo need to make a Dyson sauce but
you're looking at something generally in
the light year to tens of light years
radius that you could compact the entire
galaxy into and of course Google smaller
that you want to tune your power down
your temperature down but of course you
can only to your power down your
temperature down so much before they
start to conflict each other and density
as we see with Dyson swarms can we
compact them so much we have heat issues
so you could have a city theoretically
on a porch planet that was several
thousand levels high in a sphere itself
that was happy like you're crossed or
smaller obviously for a galaxy mass I
think it's more like point one like your
class so at that point in time
communication from one side say to
another by electric transmission would
take a few months I guess that is
conceivable that you could actually have
one you can monopolist broach planet
galaxy city that could actually
communicate with itself over the course
of months as all nations often did so
that is my best guess for how without
FTL you could actually have a galaxy
spanning city that was you know even the
concept of a galaxy spanning city but
then we have a question from Matt Parker
if you had billions of dollars how would
you decide to colonize the solar system
by investing in a method that would give
me trillions of dollars oh I guess the
easiest way to go about something like
that is to find was the industry that's
actually gonna keep star you know you
can throw money at the problem you can
say we're gonna give everybody a billion
dollars who moves to malls and that that
but you really want to get going you
have to give either has to be a
profitable reason to be out there or
whether it's new land of set up life on
or whether it's new industry to to make
money off of and presumably some
combination to and the usual one I aim
for is the best kick starter of why
people want to get out there other than
just for the sake of candy out there
would be asteroid mining but that's
mostly a a get some gold and bring it
home but beyond that speaking resources
to build up more the other one that's
really good for that is power satellites
as we looked at in the palace satellites
episode the energy industry is a multi
trillion dollar annual industry if you
could do it one percent cheap weapon
space or one percent better up in space
and that's it right there you got a
Kickstarter because now you have a multi
trillion dollar industry in space and
everything else could pop up right
around it you know there will be space
hotels for you where to go up there and
spend time there they will be people
windup film movies up in space and you
do so now because there's lots of empty
space can rent on the cheap full of it
then you've got all people making parts
for those things up in space because
you're just a little bit cheaper than
you could on the ground and then of
course you've got people saying hey why
don't we feedback the internet for those
two and they put up much cheaper well
powered Wi-Fi all the whole planet maybe
and those as much cheaper to get the
resource for these afternoon or from
these asteroids let's go ahead and mind
them and that's that poni bases on them
and so on so I tend to feel a
combination of asteroid mining and power
satellites is the most promising way to
really kickstart space and I think you
probably could actually maybe launch
eventual into trying that without with I
don't know if I would say a few billion
bucks but probably for under $100 typing
of both of those and not just a little
bit in a lab with some actual genuine
projects and see how that goes
dan from discord says what do you think
about mag matter both as the
construction material and its role in
power generation and propulsion I
definitely think of Meg meadow as a
power generational propulsion system but
I suppose it does for those of you who
aren't familiar mag meadows are
hypothetical type of material that
basically uses magnetic monopoles
assuming they exist and the idea there
is that instead of having
atoms that are connected by the electron
shells what you actually have instead is
essentially quark bonds that strong
nuclear force and of course that is so
much strong core especially in those
kind of ages so you give this hyper
dense material that's on par with
neutronium your Neutron metal comes
readily you find in the centers of
neutron stars
and that hypothetically could be
material strong enough to build things
like a new veneering moth or a banks or
grow out of and I'm not too familiar
with discussion we using for a power
generation source but till you hear I
make quite a condensed fuel if you were
something yet keep stable since the
amount of energy in those quote barns
would be huge
unless made multiple bonds but I'm
afraid I'm just not familiar time I had
what it's used for power generation or
proportion would be but I suspect it
would probably have quite a feel given
that it's a super strong material so you
could probably actually one fusion right
inside it like was a piece of steel
around a hot thing of steam as opposed
to fusion level core masses of a star
Maddi VHS have you thought about making
a twitch channel um no I I'm Bailey
familiar what twitches but I've been
sent some notes on it Mary saw its
mother's place we tend to videos though
really quite short I could be wrong
about that
I'm usually behind on these things I
only recently got around to putting that
channels audio on Spotify but if twitch
is what I remember it as Lucy being
that's for short videos we just don't do
short videos it's not always owned
yonathan what is your favorite sci-fi
setting my favorite sci-fi setting oh my
that could be quite a toss-up um I mean
just the background one and depends of
which qualifies sci-fi for instance
Roger Zelazny is carnivores Rambo and
McCaffrey is dragon iOS of porn are both
sci-fi settings kind of but they're
worthy more fantasy ones definitely not
Alastair Reynolds revelation space it's
one of my favorite serious sayings wise
but it's not a place I want to live in
saving for something I can Warhammer 40k
it's a beautiful setting in terms of the
construction for it but I would want to
have a live in that place maybe Ian and
Banks culture series would be a personal
favorite setting to live in I've just a
favorite one to actually read about
though then I would say revelation space
is probably my favorite as a setting we
have a very kind shoutout from base boy
loggia super chat member your channel is
very thought-provoking keep it up thank
you and another super chat member Milson
says which interpretation of quantum
mechanics do you subscribe to
I tend to go with the flow and just go
Copenhagen but I don't I don't have what
I'm officially locked into for those of
you have heard about this you've heard
the Copenhagen interpretation and that's
the Schrodinger's cat one that the cat
is simultaneously alive and dead until
we look at it that's Copenhagen that
these events are random and simultaneous
until we resolve them the other one
you'll be familiar with is the mini
warrant rotation and these are one or
the other it's not both you either
Copenhagen the cat is live and dead or
your mini wallet Emmy Awards the cats
live and the cats dead and you have to
tell me ething by observing it other
than letting yourself know which
universe UN you know there's one way the
cat's dead and you open the box it's
live and you say oh I'm the one with the
cats alive there's another one where the
cat's dead
those are the two big ones they all
dozens of us I think we looked at some
of them in the parallel realities no to
universe one I do not like many awards
from a philosophical standpoint it's
everything that could possibly happen is
happening but there are strikes me as
philosophically if he but it is one of
the it's I'd say it's the second most
popular most physicists might have to
Copenhagen probably pretty close to a
tie and then after that there's just so
many other ones which I think you can
see that episode for discussion of it
but you've got no way of proving them
the one that is actually true at this
time we have no way of knowing or even
testing so you don't really want to lock
you know one interpretation or another
just because it's one you like a little
bit battle we have no way of knowing
which one is true but it is important
that you mind it is a one or the other
thing whichever interpretation of
quantum theory is correct the other ones
are not and they can all be wrong in
fact I tend to suspect they are Simon
farmer what do you think of a reality TV
show being the first profitable space
endeavor I think we kicked that idea
around with the Lamaze one trip or I
might be mr. memory the name they are um
I've got no problem with filming what's
going on on board the ships of one your
journey a mouse with my own technology
basically that's a long time and it
might actually be though very good for
the crew to be seen on TV regularly but
I think if they try to film an evening
like a reality TV show they might kill
each other
and that would not was all admission
success might be good ratings there's
definitely a advantage to having some
commercial enterprise involved you know
if you have got slack Pepsi logos on the
site your spaceship they have to gives
you extra money for great but in terms
of the Force One being away are a TV
show I don't think so because it's you
know it's cross focus to the force punch
baguettes done is usually one who's
highest priority is that specific
project if your project is due tomorrow
that's what you can do if your project
is to get tomorrow so reality TV show I
tend to feel like you didn't up getting
a little bit sidetracked on to that
reality TV show aspect of things to your
production your pick and all that thing
and you know we only be picky alchemy
and cruise for Houston or cruise for the
ship based on who's got the best best
on-screen personality for say but it
could happen and I think it would be
good for people to be much more actively
involved and they want Apollo and you
know see inside they are but again
especially on a spaceship you can with
six or seven other people on four-year
we kind of want to maximize privacy I
don't think we want to have any less you
know we already have to some degree you
can watch the International Space
Station life a lot of time and that
might work for something like tomorrow
us but we don't wanna get over the top I
think and make a DIY TV show out of it
in the classic sense we have just a
couple more questions before the break
Luke cleave easier asks would s FIA
consider writing up a tabletop
role-playing game based on all of your
videos some sort of space opera setting
you know it's it's probably a bit of a
strange thing is I don't usually play
science fiction RPGs
I tend to play fantasy ones is it's I've
played some sci-fi RPGs but I usually do
tend it for more your classic Dunson
dragons of the moment playing the third
edition of exalted which is a white wolf
game and played y11 years and it's
actually fun setting but I wouldn't want
to do one myself I know somewhere around
here I actually have a I think it's
called after loss one of the fans of the
show had made that game and sent me a
copy of it but there are some very good
sci-fi RPGs out they are travel is
probably the classic space opera
track meets space Wester in space so
done there's quite a few from before
before the Warhammer 40000 set he has a
bunch of RPGs - that's it try those out
I don't even get a chance to play them
so I'm something get a chance to write
them I don't get to play putting people
in he's much like he's too cool this
might be a good one to end before the
break on we have super chat from Erik
Johansson if I want to prevent having my
behind kicked by some mean Mother
Hubbard way up and out in outer space
what would be my best bet lasers mass
drivers nuclear missiles or something
else all together hmm pray or ifnl here
he comes for you right now is bill right
now they've got interstellar spaceship
so I really would say your best odds are
and just pray because you're going to
lose mass rivals
lasers these are all great things it all
comes down to shoe energy capacity and
the key thing about interstellar warfare
is that if you can barely get off your
own planet but they can send ships to
your planet they don't have to stop them
any ship they can cross the interstellar
void and anything like a normal lifetime
or even like even a thousand years
reinstall systems is moving so fast and
carrying so much mass if it's got a crew
on board that all they have to do is not
stop the ship and run into your planet
and there's that much energy involved so
and that's assuming that all they've got
in their arsenal is sheer brute force
they probably have all sorts of
messed-up weapons like brainwashing
technology nanotechnology they drop one
little vial of nanobots on your planet
and told you do grey goo or soldiers
they can use to shoot you or just don't
your planet into paperclips without even
bothering to recognize if you're there
as a threat so when it comes to current
times and warfare against the alien yeah
you don't have too many options
available to you to defend yourself
you're pretty screwed and you're
basically like microbes in a petri dish
with the scientists absorbing you
there's very little you can do to
prevent him from sterilizing the petri
dish he wants to so so we're going to go
ahead and go to break and we will be
back in a few minutes
we'll be taking a brief break so now's a
great time to grab a drink a snack and
get more questions into the moderators
we've got some announcements though
during the break forced if you didn't
already know all of SFI is episodes
including the live streams all available
as audio abortions for free download
from SoundCloud iTunes and Spotify has a
right now the live streams don't want
live in those audio Neve oceans but I'll
post about a day later and for those of
you listening to that we tend to run
thumbnails the upcoming schedule for the
next month in a corner of the screen
during the live stream
first up heading to July we have an
episode on continent-sized rotating
space habitats we will look at some of
the truly enormous structures so which
can only built of super materials like
graphene and we look at the bishop ring
the McKendree solder the banks orbital
and the super long and skeeter populous
along with others in that episode on
July 2nd on July 9th works for the
concept of a brain in a jar how it
varies from mind uploading in simulated
realities and what life might be like as
one or if we also as might be eat brains
and chow then on July 12 to Sundays from
now we'll have the forced installment of
a new series becoming it interstellar
species we will look at the National
Space Society roadmap to the Stars and
see what the four steps are to us
becoming an interplanetary species on
Thursday the 16th we'll take a look at
how we go about acquiring the vast
amounts of raw materials we'll need to
construct millions of those content size
habit as I mentioned a moment ago and
asked if we should dismantle the solar
system itself to provide them on July
23rd will we batch the forming paradox
series to consider disappearing star
wars and cosmic voids to consider if
such things are natural or might be
signs of oral alien civilizations
dismantling their own solar systems or
even entire galaxies then we'll close
out the month of July with another
livestream on Sunday the 26th before
wrapping the month up on Thursday the
30th with techno barbarians
civilizations living the ruins of more
advanced but fallen ones with laser guns
alongside medieval technology for Lords
when those and other episodes come out
make sure to subscribe the channel and
if you're looking for a good place to
discuss our topics with like-minded
individuals
get to check out our social media forums
on Facebook reddit and discord linked in
the episode descriptions you can also
check out our form on our website
Isak author danette we can also find
catalogue of all episodes of sci-fi book
recommendations and we used to help
support the channel such as patreon
paypal snail mail or a super chat during
the live stream if you missed any of
this month's episodes to quickly recap
them we had someone on Jupiter where we
looked at touring Jupiter into a second
Sun the Fermi paradox force porn where
we examine what it might be like to be
the fourth species go out in the galaxy
and if that might be us after AI where
we looked at what a civilization might
be like that an abandoned advanced
computing space police will exam the
notion of law and law enforcement of the
future and the impact of graphene which
we'll continue discussing in terms of
megastructures this upcoming Thursday if
you do have any questions on those
recent topics they do get priority in
the live stream Q&A s but if we don't
get to your question today feel free to
leave it as a comment below I usually
get those than a day or so of the live
stream all that said let's get back to
your questions and back to the show
back so what's next question the the
next question is a super chat from Dan
O'Connell will we ever find planets
ready-made for life or will we always
have to terraform them
that's a impossible question to answer
right now it is entirely possible that
we could find all sorts plants that
actually did use oxygen and you know
photosynthesis to the set up there in
which case they'll face atmosphere and
water set up might be a really good
position for us to nuke the planet and
tail form it ourselves at hordes I don't
know that would really be the best
option you don't want to be moving down
to a place that's full of alien bacteria
alien microbes alien life-forms should
they become and this assuming only non
intelligent ones but you say you find a
nice vibe alien planet and the auction
that was these comas everything is
perfect
temperatures perfect it is it's paradise
utopia you cannot colonize that planet
with life form so here that's by some
chance they just happen to be some kind
of panspermia matter we're just matched
up the everything's perfect right which
would raise all sorts of other
interesting questions you find a ward
that's full of life if it looks a lot
like your own unless it looks like your
own microscope it's you or them need to
go down there and so if you want you
probably best leavin that planet alone
other than put some science labs down on
it and otherwise though it might be very
easy a tear for me but you probably have
to kill anything on that planet forced
and probably thoroughly which would make
it all bit harder a tale format or as I
suspect as a phoney war so real close
like Venus is real close one
when probably fine ones are better than
Venus but mass is right it gets a little
bit too much light but that's easily
fixable with a solo mio
as use we saw and winter on Venus that's
something we could probably do as
project if we watch in the next few
centuries Android took a couple of
centuries get down to point reach start
doing surface operations well let's say
we found a planet like Earth that had a
lot of land a lot of water and it does
map it doesn't have option we're going
to care about the nitrate level action
is easy to make oxygen is the third most
abundant thing in the universe but we
can hydrolyze our water we can torture
the rock we have
auction access and at that point in time
you'd have to go to the cycle the tail
for me off but I wouldn't expect those
plans to be super real
I suspect we find something much easier
colonized than Mars or Venus probably in
around at least one in ten starless or
reasonably like on the yellows and the
oranges but other than that again that's
why we are gonna be looking at the big
mega structures again this upcoming week
because those are usually get in turn
out to be much better options to build
you build them to what you need when you
need them into your own taste in a
similar vein the real the lieth asks
could there be a planet that it's more
suitable for human life than earth
itself a paradise planet that's been
suggested again before there might be a
plan that turns out to be better for
like than their nose we you are probably
going to making some dat all habitats
that just turn out to be much better to
our preferences then then the natural
planet we're on because after all we got
the object that's not terribly Hospital
pro-life the Sahara is not terribly
hospital what it was either right people
live there but it's not really the ideal
we should be able to make things that
are better suited to us and that's the
case then we should do you ever go to
find a planet that we could tell form
that would be better to that then earth
itself was but you know earth is the
plant werewolf um though it's probably
the one we're best suited to but that's
very probably very subjective answer to
but I would say if you are going to have
a planet you're not gonna stumble across
it like that
you in making something like that so
super chat from a flamey-o how does an
amateur contribute to science I am
particularly interested in information
systems and software you know until this
last century the 20th century there
really weren't very many professional
scientists and most of what was done by
amateurs in throughout most of the 20th
century this was probably still the case
that was starting to drift more towards
of you know you know life job so near is
a science is very hard to contribute to
you unless you're you don't have to be
walking it professionally per se but
unless you've done that big long
investment of time and energy the point
that you probably think about in your
job and if you're anyway um but there
are all sorts of fields were still the
case until someone on digital techniques
and record through the
late 90s and early 2000s we had spotted
a few supernovae and the person who had
spotted the most was a fellow from
Australia who just seemed to have a
knack for doing ends to this day amateur
astronomy is still probably the biggest
amatory of science for something like
computers I don't know what percentage
of software development is actually done
by people who have degrees in computer
science one of those fields but there's
only a lot of it is done by people who
do not a lot of app development is not
done by people who have you know the
doctorate for instance of a few science
so I couldn't really talk to you about
the opportunities all in something like
computer science or information systems
but that is a field for Sultan that it's
still possibly an amateur and get a lot
done as for something like protocol
physics a little bit of you super chat
from loudmouth tyrone with all our
current computing power we have can we
simulate an infinite 2d universe if we
can do that would it be possible for a
4d universe to simulate an infinite 3d
universe it kinda depends what you mean
by simulating a case like that whether
it was a 2d or not
Ethan's infinite you not be able to
simulate it in that consistent kind of
way you could do the print of a library
of Babel or infant States thing which is
procedurally drew random just random
pounds and which case so I just keeps
her randomly refreshing those that is
hypothetically a 2d University or
generating but II there was no infinite
aspect to this 3d universe and if you
want to get 2d one that doesn't change
now 40 universe cannot generate an
infinite three universe except in that
random library of maple approach which
is the library of people by the way is a
thought experiment that's device named
for the tower of maple but or the infant
monkeys project we just have a
Shakespeare put an infinite number of
monkeys in front of a typewriter they're
eventually going to put on all the walks
of Shakespeare
but in the middle of doing nothing to
put out an awful lot of crap to and
literally in case of monkeys I should
think and the library of Babel is the
place for all that is stored the library
of Babel if you limit it to only to one
page your walks I suppose the things the
whole books long would be so big and
math so you wrote down that would
collapse on its own way into becoming a
super heavy massive black hole so
you cannot do an infinite universe
rendering not even a 1d and rendering in
any finite universe with a matter of you
an attendee 1 you can do a 1 D 1 that
was Infinite unless you had infinite
something of that love to walk with so
no moon truther sense what are your
thoughts on the push towards a Mars
colony
depends on which push were talking about
there's been quite a few of the years
I'm all for a trip to Mars I'm all for
setting up a base there in a permanent
one but when I think of a motion base or
motion colony I think McMurdo Antarctica
I'm not thinking you know Jamestown or
Plymouth Rock you know it's not not a
place I see a huge amount of migration
to for people to start up new farmers
new families things like that I do not
think Mars is the next destination for
humanity the moon is the asteroid belt
is these are not places that you're
going to because they are nice places
you to stop from you know you can't
actually follow mom as we've discussed
in colonizing series for instance Mars
is not particularly valuable to us at
the moment it's a lot of raw material
it's got a little gravity well the earth
does and nobody lives on it right now so
we can freely disassemble if we want to
but it's not as easy to get your hands
on as the asteroid or the moon which is
less gravity and it's closed all these
things don't have life on them that we
know of there maybe there's some little
Wars and things like that that we've
missed right the only thing of value on
them is raw materials and they're easier
gotten out of asteroids or from the moon
and many cases from here on earth which
is where about half the rocky mass the
sign gas giants is located so in terms
of emulsion base I mean motion colony I
don't think that's the force big off
earth colony I don't you know see it
happy one day but I don't think it as
the benchmark for us we have a super
chat from Yvonne Fessler you talk a lot
about elliptical orbital rings wouldn't
they need to be rigid therefore circular
and thank you so much for your work
thank you
no there she had to be so cool
fundamentally what's going on inside an
orbital ring
is about you let's go with your most
simple overall ring we're going to take
off the outer sheath that skin that goes
around in this nice stationary part I'm
going to take an awful lot of metal and
put it into an elliptic orbit okay all
as well they can be any kind of staple
lip to orbit alright now I'm going to
build a sheath around it that weighs a
very very tiny amount and we'll assume
all the stuff in the sheath is repulsive
to that material so it just doesn't want
been to it now I have a fixed order ring
very thin when obviously in which that
matter was flowing around naturally not
in orbital ring is really happy yet we
just have a ring of metal you know your
lips are tight ring of metal now
contained inside something very small
and something to push against that now
we'll go ahead and put on magnets around
and things like that that we used to
accelerate slow or redirect that mass
it's harder to do ellipses than sawhorse
with a lot of stuff but it's so
enjoyable you can make an elliptical
particle accelerator there's no real
reason why we have done this yet because
it's not of interest to us so Felix
l-amino has a very specific purpose
there's not helped out by being
elliptical it just adds complications
but yes you can certainly do it and it
is trickier but there's no Chico down
side or difficulty into it that's like
requires new science waiting like that a
super chat from Drew McTighe did you
watch or enjoy the expanse high true by
the way eggs I know that named ruse was
with kogai-dono episode the spaceship
proportion compendium and has been one
of our moderator was on on the facebook
chat for Facebook page for a long time I
watched the force three seasons of the
experience I know that there was Steve
FB suppose to be a fourth one with
Amazon but not kept up on that yeah if
there's some production or done or
following already out gimmi gimmi
increasingly kind of my sci-fi shows I'd
love to see guys I had to stop reading
the book series around book four because
I have experienced Game of Thrones I'd
already read the book series four they
started putting a production and I'd
much rather just see especially with
deviates from the book series what the
what they come up with sona compare you
around it so if they do make more the
show I'll read the next book if they
don't tell finish up a series but it's a
very good the books use is good and TVC
is good they're not quite the same
obviously but it's a real case where
they both just really
and there's a very big difference in the
captain though I'm in the book serious
he seems like a much you know a little
bit older wiser and calmer person and
the TV show where he's often sees a
little bit crazy reckless but they both
have the opiates to themself Dan em says
what are the best ways a civilization
can isolate itself mm-hmm
I mean the best way would be to create a
pocket universe and put yourself in it
that maybe passport and own physics we
talked about wormholes that our entry
Univ also has in tall Univ also has to
intro Univ also going to the same place
to a different one in same universe you
know we talk about things like black
hole Fahmy in the other sense where you
might make a black hole it might produce
another universe on the other side of it
how you would actually get to that
universe if such a thing is even
possible or would be hard to say
especially since you probably can't
really go back out it's smoother down at
leuf aliens you can make another
universe to go hide yourself in and you
have to go out that gateway to keep
anyone from going back in it
and if there's no way to go back and
forth then you don't ever know if your
contr sent through went and lived in
utopia or awful barrow and dystopia or
just got shredded by the black hole as
it went through otherwise trying to
isolate yourself inside the universe
under known physics I would say you
probably want to eject your planet
outside the galaxy there'll be a slow
process obviously something like a
Chicago thruster or some of the various
toaster designs we looked at in fleet of
stars eject yourself out of the galaxy
and on a trajectory that's not going to
take you towards any other galaxies and
how science it lasts all night and one
of the cosmic voids that we as must say
a lot would look that recently in
episode but we will be looking at in
episode this upcoming month you get
yourself in some place that's so empty
and Addie's no kind of speed that nobody
really feels like going out yeah for
your raw materials and then I worry if I
should come after them so and then the
expansion universe should do the trick
in a hundred billion years you should be
all alone with nobody around you 400
billion light years around here is the
it was expands that would be my best
guess
Ethan Keenan says do you plan on
exploring alien philosophy and alien
cultural variations within the same
species
you have to I mean you have to actually
sit down and create one hypothetical
alien species do that and we had
considered that with a series we didn't
end up doing because it was just so much
animation of a need for it it was the
idea was that we'd make up a few
hypothet over a lien species that had
come up you know separate lines and kind
of look at their progress based on a few
minor variations from what we all to see
how big those those variations might
have happened but I don't think you
could predict something that well either
hero to have like a human civilization
with the same psychology and just
changed a few minor things like change
where the continents were around or
changed a few of the major staple crops
those things have such huge impact on
every aspect of our culture that it's
just hard to put it well due to human
alone an alien race but we might play
around at some point I have a follow-up
on that one from Ethan as well as said
you said we have very few options for
defending ourselves from an alien
invasion with those options revolve
around appeasing them or try not to be
noticed by them to appease them you have
to have something they wanted that they
that you could give them with less
effort than they could take it and my do
we say effort they might have more
reasons why they don't really like to do
things certain ways so you might be able
to appeal them as you know by giving in
to them giving them what they want in
some way even though they could take it
where there was just more acceptable
their civilization hiding you're not
gonna hide from them you cannot hide in
space about new rules of physics and the
Anan is we find those people wars they
probably already found them a million
years for you did so you know they
probably know how to get around that if
there's a way to go around it your other
option of course is the assumption there
was a set of or physical laws set number
of limits and you can max out your
technology and just another you know a
few generations or few centuries which
may be the case there probably is a
finite number of physical laws in that
case you a chance to actually oppose
them because you're the same tech level
and your resource on hand and that
probably means great Guin your entire
solar system bill weapons platforms but
that's not something we can do right now
we have a super chat from
thought-criminal
have you read any of Ted Kaczynski's
writings like industrial society and its
future or anti tech revolution why and
how
why is that name familiar to me is that
the Unabomber that I probably thinking
about person oh no I don't think I've
read something even suppose I'm thinking
about something that I read their walk
but I'm afraid I don't know that awful
unless you I'm thinking yeah Johnny
wings if you were approached by a major
television network to make a series of
SFI a would you take up the offer it
would depend a lot on the context when
you're doing with something like
television there you have so many slots
and so much resources that can run so if
you go beneath it so in threshold they
had to cancel the show and with the
resources found out the TV shows and
typically you know if you've done
something like that you can't come back
into YouTube oval again you know I
couldn't we stopped the channel if
somebody that you must you mean I was
allowed to because they'd probably be
some kind of contract on the
intellectual property so I would be
interested if someone ever made that
awful but with a lot of caveats and lot
of reluctance it'd be nice to spread the
show out with medula special effects and
do a bigger audience but at the same
time it's not something I really go
around looking for the opportunity for
neck oh girl says how long do you think
a hypothetical Mars colony would take to
diverge culturally maybe even
linguistically from cultures on earth
one second um I mean it kinda depends on
which me my devotions they'd still be
getting all the same you know television
all the same entertainments that were
getting right now mmm and we don't know
what the language there would be it
probably would be the same one I don't
mean that there'll be emulsion language
I mean if you have a reason to colonize
Mars in a big way in a way that's gonna
resolve a colony of hundreds of
thousands of people then it's probably
not a single colony there's probably
dozens of different colonies with
different countries and different
corporations having played a big role in
their founding or having a misdirect
territory in which case you might
eventually emerge with some kind of
unified motion cultural but we have that
on earth so far and there's top-secret
recently kid growing Mars would unify
either in terms of the voters that were
culturally before they even arrived you
know before they even left they've
already pretty devoted for civilization
let's we picked a random sample of the
population
but you know just the trip they always
have changed they'll add to your not
look on life in a very major way I don't
mean the devotions you have from your
clone over one second of life it's a
very big change and it's probably a not
a random sample population going so oh
by the way super chat from Milson when
do you think we might achieve the levels
of energy efficiency implied in your
civilizations at the end of time series
uh if you mean the very last stage
levels of energy efficiency necessary to
really maximize the landau limits where
you're dealing with temperatures in the
nano Kelvin range I don't think you
could ever really achieve that level of
efficiency off of collecting Hawking
radiation off of solar mass black holes
no you could what you could do and it's
always possible you might find a way to
do it what you could do though is to
have love solar mass black holes you
carefully fed matter into so they all
kind of chained out so they don't shrink
you master more usable level say a
planet mass or well more like an
asteroid mass at the same time and
you're just going from one to the other
the other the other as they burned out
so I was slated for mass on them all and
you could probably set that up and
before that have Fedya Fedya black
always gotten powell that way which is
much easier so you did have one constant
power supply the entire time but I do
not think you'd ever find a way to tap
Hawking radiation of solar mass let
alone galactic mass black holes in a
useful way you'd have to be fee in the
matter or ways they evaporate on their
own and got to a more brilliant level a
question from arseny Mun
do you think it's a do you think it's
possible to form clouds in O'Neal
cylinder mm-hmm yeah you can form clouds
huyn Akron I believe we have a big
warehouse step overall blimp the
Goodyear blimp Akron spell 5060 miles
southwest again and when the blimps end
they'll it's so big that they actually
have written inside the flange memory
sauce you can CloudFormation a belt roll
if you don't invite with your atmosphere
mixers yes you get cloud formation Tony
also to at least the big old ones is
something small like cap lana one like
by and Vashti's one or the gateway one
you wouldn't expect any real weather
they have got used to it condensation
jim morrison asks assuming your
consciousness could be cloned
would you ever allow a copy to exist um
you mean what I actually turn a mind
uploaded copy on if I had my mind
uploaded I would be Trini as kind of a
fallback that was you know updated to my
court and brain state was they could
take over my responsibilities if I died
I don't view in the mind uploading
itself is a way of life extension but
more of a way of like life insurance if
I die my my duplicate can take of all my
boys responsibilities and duties for me
but if for some reason it got torn down
then I would you know I pile thought on
the matter we would simply take a name
that had different middlee in the mind
so I mean song with the B in 7a and it
would be equally B in my eyes and it's
nice too in which case we divorce we no
longer be the same person but it would
have all the same friends family
relationships that I had along those
same lines you have a fan that is asking
whether or not you they could use a
portion of your video in a presentation
that they are putting together if you're
not using for commercial purposes or
playing a blast all over the units of
thousands of people the videos are meant
to be watched you know if you want to
show the end of these to your class or
something like that or doing a
presentation go right ahead and I think
this might be the last question I've got
up here at the moment for from Corey
Williams they say hey Isaac wondering if
you feel that it's a little misleading
to assume a Dyson swarm is an inevitable
advance in technology wouldn't fusion or
some other energy source make a Dyson
swarm obsolete nope
well before we get that we probably have
time for about four or five more
questions we're a little bit over so if
you guys still want put more questions
and go ahead the first thing is that a
Dyson swarm is not necessarily they
ought to collect energy the second thing
is you have to actually make a fusion
walk in and then as I point out folks
we cannot replicate the conditions
inside of Stoll not because we cannot
replicate the conditions inside Stoll
that's easy it's you guys rep clean and
condition science all fusion or not
enough you know you take a big 1
kilogram or a thousand kilogram sack of
huge Americana going on the Sun just
follow up safely you barely get a light
a light bulb up with it it's that slow
members
the fusion is going slow so it's going
to take 10 billion years to go through
ten percent of its fusion mass if we
make something you can do that that easy
to the point where it's cheaper than
building really cheap solar panels and
meals in space which meant was probably
a lot easier knew if there's a cost
point on that that's better by and
outside like the fast line far away from
the Sun they probably will be battle you
have more fusion patent economies
probably further out from the Sun but
unless you can make solar panels that
are unless you can make fusion or black
core power sources they're cheaper than
solar panels you're gonna go with those
but that's not the end of it because
when we say Dyson swarm it's not about
whether or not they are museum for
sunlight that's just the easy simplest
version but it's whether or not they
want to use that stalls mass and they're
using that right now is a very ambient
passive energy generator all yeah all
that mass is what matters
at that point time they might stall if
the ticket pour you down a black or
transmute other materials they're using
it up at you say well they can spread
out why would they want to the size of a
Dyson swarm is what it is because that's
where you can collect enough light to be
off like well that's also if you get
close off you get too hot it's too hot
you have to spread out get further away
you can get closer together and you want
to be closer together or dinosaurs are
not dense you want to be as close
together as you can for fast
transmission of communications and
people now people might choose to be
more spread out but there's always that
advantage to being packed together and
it's not the amount of energy being
produced by the culture or what's
available to them that controls it it is
the amount that will easy as waste heat
and that has nothing to evaluates a Sun
a black hole or any other power source
we have a super chat from
thought-criminal what do you think of
Anne Tolley Carlin's
my goodness catagen hypothesis as an
explanation for the Fermi paradox
did I pronounce that incorrectly I
probably I don't know I actually do not
know that one if you want to leave that
below in the comments well me I will
look that up and see if I'm familiar
with it but the names not making about
moon truther asks do you think a full
consciousness transfer rather than
duplicates from human body to digital
mind as possible
sure it just depends on how you define
the word for body mind
transform if we're going to go ahead and
say that if I bone your brain out or
copy it to another machine that new copy
is a transform then you're good I
transfer files on a thumb drive one
computer to another I don't really think
of the files of the other end as being
somehow different files and the ones I
put off originally that I would delete
it but I chose to leave them you know as
opposed to leave me a copy of a whale
and that same process probably applies
but the same time when I know on in my
head dies or when a new neuron gets a
new memory there's a change of state to
the brain so there has to be a
definition of mind transfer that
potentially can include copying on
something else but what that is mmm it's
going to be subjective I don't think
it's gonna be way you can just say this
is definitely a mind transfer rather
than a copy we have a super chat from
living God the first ever exoplanet was
found around a pulsar why don't we
consider that an alien construct the
amount of electrons captured from the
Pulsar would power a Kardashev scale to
civilization well the amount of energy
off of eminent star is usually lower
than this one almost all so I guess you
could call a k2 still but the question
is why we found the exoplanet they are
and then the question is what's what's
making it more visible we have no
particular reason that would be an alien
construct I think the notion there is
shouldn't the supernova have blown the
plan about that was rounded you've got
you know you're a big star called a 10
solar mass star that's going to a
supernova and leave a neutron star
behind you thinking well when the
supernova goes off it had to destroyed
all those planets no earth would
probably be destroyed if some beings of
that mass went off and blew us up but a
lot of other plants would not be
destroyed Jupiter for instance would
certainly be hit pretty bad by
supernovae but it would be left over
you know most of its mass be left over
supernovas are very powerful but don't
make the mistake of assuming that all
that huge they go off and even much of a
few u8u out it's at the point where you
know a civilization that mean the center
of a 10 kilo meter wide asteroid might
actually survive the shock wave you're
out in place like Pluto if you're buried
down a mile on the ground your partner
survived
things like the rock would survive
things like you know Jay broil would
survive
so plants around neutron stars or white
dwarfs does not indicate they form that
words but they probably could a lot of
math up there for there's nothing
stopping planet formation at Ward's but
there's also nothing stopping plants
surviving when they go supernova I think
that we have another question coming in
but it's kind of in the chat waves is
there anything that you'd like to add
while we're waiting for it I like
Sunday's oh you know we have the
upcoming schedule available to everybody
and you should see it going up as we're
going along but for those who are
curious I usually do leave a link to the
entire episode guide folks were asked
what's coming up and we all I don't have
to make a point of adding that in the
comment section again so we would see
that we did a pull over on Facebook in
fact it's still running except
officially closed out yet on what new
topics we'd be doing if I think episodes
254 and 255 so if you want to get some
input on they are also going to about
another poll on YouTube probably next
week or two for picking an episode okay
we got another question yes I believe
this might be the last question it's a
super chat from Andrew Soto what do you
think would constitute as evidence that
we are living in a simulation somebody
showing us some simulation often saying
you're on a simulation if you're in a
simulation you have no way of proving it
unless the people doing the program you
messed up or unless they choose to
actively let you know and you know in
this kind of context it's no different
than a theological discussion of how
would you know if you're in a dream of
all of creator entity or things along
those lines you know what they permit
you know and it's worse than the case I
could bring a jar which we'll get into
you the two weeks from now because they
can pass a thing if you oops figure it
out they can pause it and delete that
memory from your head oh and they can go
back a day and start thing over again
just like a save program
how would a book know that it was you
know the characters inside a book know
that they will book care of course they
wouldn't you know that's that's not how
that walks out so you're no way of
knowing your simulation list that people
were doing the simulation mess up or
really lazy or they intentionally let
you know and those first two options are
kind of counterindicated by the ability
to do a simulation there's complexes us
in the horse play so I guess we're going
ahead and close
they are thank you everybody so much for
for the old questions today and for
joining us today and for super chats we
appreciate that very great deal and we
will see you on Thursday
so that will wrap us up for the day I
want to thank everyone for joining us
and again if we didn't get you a
question feel free to post as a comment
below and I'll try to get to it this
evening
also you can continue the conversation
and any of the forms on Facebook reddit
discord or website
Isak all for.net thanks for joining us
and we'll see you Thursday
[Music]
