we search for life out in the galaxy in
what we call the habitable zone or
Goldilocks zone not too hot not too cold
but this presumes alien life is carbon
based or needs water could we be
overlooking words running on alternative
chemistries
[Music]
today we'll be discussing the
possibility of life based on ammonia
probably the most popular alternative
chemistry for life that gets discussed
except for maybe silicon as a carbon
alternative and not just discussed in
fiction but in science socals too for
many decades indeed NASA has given this
a lot of serious thought such as the
2003 article from NASA Ames searching
for alien life having unearthly
biochemistry written by Harry Jones
which we will borrow from today the
topic of alien life might exist in the
cosmos inevitably leads us to wondering
how it might be different from it having
Arisen on strange new words unlike our
own and how this should change our
methods for seeking it right now we
basically seek out life in what we call
the goldilock Zone not too cold not too
hot just right but unlike in the story
of Goldilocks and the Three Bears we're
not talking about porridge but water a
world covered in ice on which the oceans
would evaporate away is not a a place
where we'd expect to find complex
surface life on in the absence of
surface life we would not expect a rich
ecology powered by sunlight but life
might live deep underground or in the
deep ocean even the surface of the
planet was frozen over and we discussed
that option before most recently in our
episode on high Sean planets and Ice
worlds however it still assumes life is
based on water and there are some very
good reasons to think that would at
least be the norm for the universe and
maybe the only option
we'll be discussing that reasoning for
today and will be examining the
possibility that ammonia might be an
alternative basis for life and
critically why it might make a suitable
alternative to water I want to emphasize
that we're not talking about ammonia
here as an alternative to carbon as in
carbon-based life but rather as an
alternative to water as the solvent that
all the chemistry of life is happening
in and with we are carbon-based life
forms we have a lot more water in us
than carbon and we'll discussing ammonia
today as an alternative to that water
carbon may or may not need an
alternative pneumonia environments too
of course
you'll hear folks say we are carbon
based and suggest silicon as an
alternative and we discussed that a bit
some years back in our non-carbon based
Life episode but it is important to
understand that carbon is only the
second largest fraction of mass in your
body at 18.5 percent while oxygen and
hydrogen make up 65 and 9.5 percent
respectively that's by mass and 93 of
the typical human or animal is made up
of those three indeed hydrogen the most
common element of the universe is the
most common on the body too as hydrogen
atoms outnumber every other atom in your
body combined it's just that it is
mostly as water which is made of two
hydrogen and one oxygen atom and while
hydrogen only has one proton and one
electron normally oxygen normally has
eight protons eight neutrons and eight
electrons meaning one in three atoms in
water are oxygen but they make up 89 of
the mass
when we start talking about alternative
chemistries for life other than our own
it is critical to know how abundant and
available elements and molecules made
from them are and not just inside our
bodies phosphorus the last the big six
elements in terrestrial life at one
percent of our mass is far less abundant
than the other big six oxygen carbon
hydrogen nitrogen and calcium but it is
around enough to be available for life
to harvest and concentrate to the levels
they need and that would work for other
rare elements but where water is
concerned its abundance is critical as a
solvent essentially you need something
for all the chemicals to dissolve in and
interact with each other and that's the
role that water plays and water plays
that role very well
there are tons of solvents out there in
nature but there's a reason why water is
called the universal solvent more things
dissolve in water than anything else we
know of at least when it's a liquid not
an ice cube it's also insanely common
being made of the first and third most
abundant elements in the universe
hydrogen and oxygen oxygen is a distant
third too far behind hydrogen helium
making up only about one percent of the
mass of the universe ignoring dark
matter which is why gas giant planets
are huge but Rocky ones made of oxygen
or icy bodies are relatively small they
are left over after most the hydrogen
helium fly off into space indeed oxygen
is typically the most abundant elements
on any planet or planetoid not cold
enough or massive enough to hold on to
hydrogen helium against forces that
strip Lido elements off the planets when
it isn't forced it's usually a close
second on something like iron or silicon
to come up with alternatives for Life We
Begin by either contemplating different
chemistries that might work with water
or we contemplate options that replace
water with another solvent and that's
where amunya comes in as a potential
alternative to water first it is very
common most icy bodies we refer to are
made of a mix of water ice but also
methane and ammonia that's not
surprising methane is one carbon and
four hydrogen atoms and carbon is the
fourth most abundant element about half
as common as oxygen just under half a
percent of the mass kicking around in
space and in methane 75 of the mass is
carbon but 80 of the individual atoms
are hydrogen nitrogen is decently common
too but around a tenth is common as
oxygen and a fifth is common as carbon
ammonia being one nitrogen atom plus
three hydrogen is also fairly common and
as we see here water or methane and
ammonia all represent very basic
mixtures of multiple hydrogen atoms the
most abundant kind with one atom of the
more common elements oxygen carbon and
nitrogen
so all our abundance whereas something
like Mercury the Quicksilver liquid on
which rock can float and which will not
boil on all but the hottest planets is
just not very common and maybe more
importantly would not be the dominant
liquid on a planet where water could
exist and we often have Lido elements
torn molten and float on top of mercury
on any place where Mercury might
conceivably be common but water couldn't
exist
but ammonia is very common and is a
liquid when water is not freezing not
until reaching negative 78 celsius or
negative 108 fahrenheit it is also a
good solvent not the equal of water in
some respects but better in other
respects such as being able to dissolve
Metals it also has a lower viscosity
making it a better medium for moving of
ions but critically ammonia is a vastly
superior solvent to Frozen water so on
quarter Wards it's abundant enough to
take over that role water ice while
likely to be very abundant compared to
that ammonia forms the ground on which a
lake of ammonia might exist as ammonia
has a density of 0.73 kilograms per
cubic meter versus 0.9 for water ice and
one for water however water ice is
soluble in ammonia so in that case the
lake might dissolve the underlying
ground and you would end up with a
eutectic mixture rather than pure
ammonia
another issue though is that Frozen
ammonia is denser than liquid ammonia at
0.86 thus ice cubes of it would sink in
ammonia rather than float the way water
ice does in a glass of water no ammonia
icebergs on a sea of ammonia though it
is less dense as a liquid or solid than
water or water ice or life based on
water and in water has the advantage
that water soap insulates freezing from
the top down allowing water to exist
even on the other side of that ice and
the temperature may have fallen to far
below freezing which is Handy if you
have significant periodic temperature
variation on your planet's surface from
daytime and year length this is
potentially a big issue with ammonia
Lakes I have heard it discussed as a
requirement for life on Earth that ice
be less dense than liquid water ice the
solid form of water will float on it but
many solids are denser than the liquid
they are frozen out of water's
properties in this regard also encourage
ocean currents which might be more
difficult for ammonia
a walk around might be where ammonia and
water both exist the water might freeze
and float and insulate the lower
ammonia-rich layers a very great deal
depends not just on the composition of a
planet but its average temperature and
how that temperature varies from factors
like day or year or latitude or depth
temperature ranges on planets are not
evenly distributed most the bodies of
the solar system are far too cold for
liquid water to exist on the surface or
often even some underground pocket it's
not a case where plants gain twice as
much sunlight to have twice as high a
temperature things in nature tend to
reach an equilibrium point on their
upper layers where the sunlight coming
in gets absorbed and re-radiated as
infrared waste heat and equal rate and
will warm or cool so that equilibrium is
reached but that goes with the fourth
power as a first order approximation
Earth has an average temperature of 288
Kelvin just 15 Kelvin above water
freezing ammonia freezes at 195 Kelvin
so a planet on average 15 Kelvin War
than that would be 210 Kelvin that is 73
percent of Earth's average absolute
temperature that would imply it only got
28 as much light as Earth about what we
expect from an object twice as far from
the Sun as us past Mars but in from the
asteroid about let me emphasize that was
on a forced order approximation and
other energy sources like leftover
heater formation radioactive decay in
the core and tidal heating have way
bigger effects proportionally on keeping
that planet warm as sunlight diminishes
what it basically means though is that a
planet like Earth could have seas of
liquid ammonia while still being close
enough to its Sun for us to imagine
photosynthesis or some other solar
powered pump for Life operating the
implementia robust ecology
ammonia is also a good heat Reservoir
even better than water making it slower
to rise or fall in temperature
clouds of ammonia and Ice of ammonia are
both white like water making them more
reflective to incoming light I suppose
strictly speaking that the ultimate
medium for stable life temperatures
would be very reflective when as hot as
Cloud vapor and opaque and absorptive as
an ice
atmosphere on a ward of ammonia sees
even colder ones would have a fairly
high percentage of ammonia Vapor as an
analogy to water vapor and humidity
asmonia has a high vapor pressure though
that can be a downside too the hydrogen
bonds in water are stronger than ammonia
and that affects not just vapor pressure
but also surface tension of a liquid and
how hydrophobic or hydrophilic other
chemicals are to it the ammonia
equivalent of that there are doubts as
to if very simple early life could hold
itself together well enough to allow a
self-reproducing system Titan Saturn's
biggest moon and with an atmosphere
thicker than Earth's might be a good
place to get a look at what chemistry
goes on in ammonia-rich environments and
speculation that Titan might hold life
is often assuming ammonia-based
chemistry
using Titan as an example there is a
decent chance that these Awards would
have thicker atmospheres on account of
being colder and farther from their sons
even if much closer than Titan which
might help protect the ammonia from UV
and it's possible that photochemistry
could produce a high altitude Haze
analogous and function to Ozone but
these Wards would still fare better
around lower UV Stars which conveniently
or the majority of them all sun is one
of the biggest and hottest five percent
stars and thus releases a larger share
of its light in the blue violet and
UltraViolets than cooler stars do which
are stronger in oranges Reds and
Infrareds it is harder to speculate on
Colors by default we would expect the
same blue skies as Earth gets with the
same redditing at Dusk and Dawn perhaps
slightly more reddish if there is indeed
a protective high altitude Haze ammonia
is a better solvent for alkaline earth
metals which might become the equivalent
of salt in the equivalent of saltwater
oceans so you might get Seas of ammonia
with a gold or bronze shade to reflect
those alkalines while fresh ammonia
remains blue nitrogen is plentiful in
Earth's atmosphere and would be expected
to be on a pneumonia heavy War too
it is harder to make the case for free
oxygeniere since ammonia is flammable in
oxygen though nitrous oxide ought to be
plentiful enough as a caveat though
amunya is not super flammable like
gasoline which will burn when it's at a
concentration of just a couple percent
in the air but in the 15 to 28 range
more like carbon monoxide alternatively
water vapor is only a few percent
normally too so ammonia that
concentration as a substitute for water
would not be flammable that is all
dependent on overall pressure and ratio
of oxygen in that air2
still I wouldn't be too optimistic about
ammonia and oxygen both being in larger
concentration in an atmosphere but we
probably don't want to casually rule it
out either
additionally it may be that life on
terrestrial planets base stripping on
ammonia rather than ammonia water
solution would be more likely on
so-called carbon planets these Wards are
speculated to form around Stars favoring
carbon over oxygen to the point that
Rocky Wards are based on carbides rather
than silicates such Wards could have
seas of ammonia without necessarily also
having lots of water ice around early
Wards would likely have lots of various
hydrocarbons around though we think a
case can be made that vegetation on
these Wards might be dark or black as
opposed to Green unlike water wars like
Earth plants on ammonia walls may not
need to deprotonate water or ammonia
molecules see an electron for
photosynthesis this is because the
dissolved alkaline earth metals release
solvate electrons that can be used
directly this could free up
photosynthetic plants to use a wider
range of the spectrum nonetheless we're
not really expecting dense life like we
see in rainforests
many alternatives to water have been
proposed but ammonia has remained the
strongest candidate since JBS howardane
first suggested a symposium back in 1954
one of his strongest points is that a
lot of water-related organic compounds
have ammonia-related analogues these
could serve as a basis for Life One
objection to ammonia and they're all
plenty is that has a lower range of
liquidity water has a 100 degrees
Celsius or kelvin or 180 degree
Fahrenheit range of being water at
normal pressure it's a good deal higher
at higher pressures while pneumonia's
range is smaller only about 44 degrees
Celsius or 80 Fahrenheit it boils at a
mere negative 33 Celsius or negative 28
Fahrenheit and freezes at not much less
and if you're wondering the ammonia you
use at home is usually mostly water
ammonia mixed into water is a great
anti-freeze solution
I suppose we might contemplate life
based on ammonia-rich water or which
exists in one state in pure ammonia and
as the planet warmed the summer and
ammonia-rich mixture of water but in
truth I don't see the temperature
variation mattering much
water is liquid from zero to 100 degrees
C but few life forms can exploit the
upper end of that range proteins can be
damaged at temperatures significantly
below the boiling point of water that
might be less of a problem for
ammonia-based life forms in fact a
bigger problem might be molecules being
too stable for metabolism at liquid
ammonia temperatures also since liquid
ammonia does not expand as it freezes
the way water does freezing might not be
fatal for ammonia-based organisms as it
is for us
freezing in the wintertime and fine out
again in the spring might simply be part
of their life cycle so the habitable
range of temperatures and ammonia might
not be much less than Liz in water
we also probably do not want to assume
that pressure is the same as on Earth
substances usually have a wider range
they are liquid at higher pressures and
lower when the pressure drops to the
point you can't really have liquids in a
vacuum or near a vacuum temperature is
very Less in your Corridor Pluto for
instance varies from negative 233 to
negative 223 Celsius a mere 10 degree
difference
and while they're probably all higher in
lower spots Pluto has not explored much
more in detail there's just not much
room for temperature variation even
though it's high eccentricity means it
gets 275 more sunlight at perihelion
than when it's furthest from the Sun at
Helium there's no liquid ammonia on
Pluto's surface of course we're talking
about warts can still be warmer for
ammonia oceans even if frigid compared
to Earth but there's definitely ammonia
on its surface and there may be liquid
ammonia Pockets below the ice indeed
Pluto has cryo volcanoes that we think
are up to pneumonia water mix onto its
surface as for ammonia Wards their
atmospheres are likely to be rich in
ammonia and methane which are greenhouse
gases this may help to further moderate
temperature extremes it may be that some
ammonia warts can remain with an
ammonia's liquid range even at the poles
especially if air pressure is higher
expanding that range
NASA aims increasingly views ammonia as
a bio essential to look for since it's
such a key ingredient in life-based
chemistry and so short-lived in the
presence of ultraviolet so fanyana
planetary surface like we have on Pluto
strongly implies activities to posing at
recently or regularly not necessarily
life of course but it implies active
cycles and churning going on below and
where you've got motion and activities
and liquids life becomes a lot more
plausible
on the more General topic of searching
for plausible alien life locations that
are not very Earth-like and speaking of
NASA aims I mentioned a short article on
alternative alien chemistries they did
in 2003 near the start of the episode in
that paper and a previous one 20 basic
principles of extraterrestrial ecology
or exo-ecology are summarized under five
general areas and I'll quote those now
we have five categories each with four
principles under each of its headings
those categories are environmental
interaction ecosystem design ecosystem
Dynamics material cycling and temporal
Cycles
let's run through those and then we'll
boil it down both in the case of ammonia
and generally and I'll interrupt the
quotation occasionally when it is using
a term that might not be obvious to the
Casual listener
category a environmental interaction A1
the EXO environments will limit the
potential types of EXO ecology A2
different EXO environments will support
different ecosystems A3 the EXO ecology
will be adapted to its environment by
Evolution
A4 the environment will be affected by
any exo-ecology which boils down to
saying alien ecologies are limited to
what alien environments permit but
likely to have some diversity such as
Earth does between pores and Tropics
seas and land and that life there will
adapt to those environments and those
environments will be altered by that
things change when plants arise and
change the plant's Albedo or
reflectivity alter the atmosphere makeup
and bigger Critters like Beavers start
making dams and so on
this is all important for basic
consideration but also be mindful that
when looking for astronomical biosync
shows we may take for granted they will
exist as the planets will be changed by
life being on it
category B ecosystem design B1 an
ecosystem will require energy inputs and
use material recycling B2 an EXO
ecosystem will contain a traffic food
web of producers decomposers and
possibly primary and secondary consumers
B3 the number of trophic levels will be
four or fewer B4 an EXO ecosystem will
have an hierarchy of compartmentalized
subsystems or essentially life needs
energy needs to be good at using it and
recycling elements and that as a result
it tends to include components that do
that recycling which means eating each
other eating waste decomposing waste and
so on trophic levels are basically the
food chain level one our primary
producers like plants level two would
include herbivores that eat those plants
level 3 are carnivores level 4 are apex
predators and we usually talk about food
webs these days as nourishment can flow
around in a lot of ways like we can eat
plants eat Critters eat carnivores and
even eat each other and we can also feed
all of the above
category C ecosystem Dynamics
C1 the energy flux and storage will be
an order of magnitude lower for each
higher level of the trophic pyramid
C2 higher energy flows between trophic
levels will increase stored energy and
ecosystem diversity
C3 energy will be dissipated and
converted to heat
C4 energy is not necessarily the
limiting factor in EXO ecosystem growth
how much energy award is getting is a
big factor in how big and complex these
situations can be and an ammonia-based
Ward is likely beyond the lower end of
that though again you might have a
photosynthesis analog on a quarter Ward
orbiting a dim with star low in
ultraviolet but we're often assuming
alternative cold chemistries like
ammonia or methane for that matter
already on Far weaker overall energy
supplies especially given that we often
imagine them on smaller worlds like
comets or icy moons or more of the sfia
K2 Dyson swarm style of conversation
larger megastructures with vast amounts
of engineering at every level including
genetic might be able to get away with
more trophic levels obviously such
megastructures are themselves Signs of
Life of some sort
category D material cycling D1 the
material cycle will be closed by
decomposers D2 material Cycles with a
gaseous phase will cause uniform
distribution of the material D3
materials with no gaseous phase will
have a more varied spatial distribution
of the material D4 material availability
may be alumin factor in EXO ecosystem
growth
all life eventually needs to be recycled
around those basic building blocks again
to be reused or life won't last long and
factors for how well it works or how
plausible a system is for permittent
need to contemplate what states of
matter can be used too so for instance
life made of big frozen blocks of matter
rather than liquids or gases is
occurring at a very slow speed
and category e temporal Cycles E1
temporal cycle is an EXO ecosystems can
be caused by external or internal
factors E2 external astronomical factors
may cause day and night tides and
Seasons E3 internal Dynamics will cause
exo-ecological succession E4 stable
systems typically have only one limiting
factor and category e we may boil down
to saying that day or night or seasonal
Cycles are going to have a huge impact
on how life operates in that environment
and how stably it does so
stable is good though of course you also
need some change in chaos to disrupt
ecosystems if you want them to change as
otherwise Critters get hypospecialized
that Niche which you can argue would
tend to limit it getting evolved to
really impressive States like
technological civilizations more
generally though Award with constant
crazy changes or really complex Cycles
like a planet orbiting centrically
around a pair of binary Stars which also
vary themselves a lot in brightness is
not a place we think of as being super
friendly for life to begin and dwell
in that same vein we can look at a
planet that's Ultra cold and see the
presence of liquid helium and say that
might be ultra low in temperature but
superconductors could run there and
natural computers might form and thus
have brains but the timeline for
anything happening with chemistry in
that sheer cord is so immense that we
wouldn't expect such light to have had a
chance to emerge yet maybe long after
the Stars Are Born out or in a different
Universe where facto is just different
enough that star was never really formed
much or God is hot and our five
categories are less of a hard list on
where life can or can't be than they are
a reminder of what we need to consider
when we do come up with an alternative
option yes a hot planet might have
liquid mercury still but is that
abundant enough and concentrated enough
to offer ecosystems and what's that Heat
doing to those other categories not much
complex chemistry with big long protein
analogues seems very likely in that
level of heat and of course is utterly
impossible inside a star another place
popular to contemplate life in science
fiction and but not in astrobiology or
exo-ecology unless it was running on
some exotic matter like magmatter or
magnetic monopoles and again we can
always find out what if one exception
but as we run it through those
categories the realism of the situation
gets iffier especially when
contemplating natural life as opposed to
something we might artificially tailor
to such places which cannot be ruled out
of course life may never form on a place
so cold it has hydrogen hear the
emotions but somebody may have created
some and the word life gets very
ambiguous in a technological context too
such a ward might be home to an uploaded
digital civilization enjoying the safety
and Computing efficiency of Life under
liquid helium oceans of some rogue
planets but for our purposes today the
key thing is that while ammonia-based
life definitely has some factors working
against it it does not break or push any
of those categories it is very abundant
and the words on which it might be
abundant are also not something we would
expect to be hyper rare or dominated by
some alternative like water except
possibly what we might deem an
anti-freeze planet where the Seas will
ammonia Rich water varying in
concentration by location and season
this unfortunately is the limit of our
speculation we would expect ammonia
plants to be less abundant in life than
water Wards and probably an order of
magnitude less common too and likely as
a result slower to evolve so probably
not a common chemistry among
space-faring civilizations in the
universe but in a galaxy of trillions of
planets should it turn out that simple
life arises fairly often even if
intelligent life is a rarity that many
Wards have algae or slime on them then I
would say there's a good chance a small
but not minuscule portion of those might
be based on ammonia and it might have
some non-microscopic ecology too though
odds aren't great that a corridor slower
word would evolve complex life of course
some red or orange dwarf might have had
such a ward Circle yet for 10 billion
years at this point so maybe they had
enough time and such Stars will live for
tens of billions of years to come too
the good news for them is it might be
easier to get Galactic colonists to
leave those planets be we often imagine
it being hard to quarantine words with
very primitive life on them that after
you find enough examples of alien algae
and bacteria without anything even as
complex as an insect on them you stop
trying to keep people from settling them
even if it ruins that local ecology but
a planet so-called it makes Antarctica
look toasty probably would not be as
high a priority destination for most
colonists even if it didn't stink of
ammonia and have an atmosphere that
would burn of the oxygen from your
habitat leaked out and sparked
so whether or not there's life out there
based on ammonia chemistry it's not
likely to be a popular tourist
destination for folks from Earth
[Music]
so we were talking about our alternative
chemistries that might support life
today and I know one that definitely
walks and that's coffee is the substance
that's kept this show running for nine
years now and has been the drink in the
drinking a snack I always refer to in
the show and also the better part of a
decade in the Army all my time as a
physics major in undergrad and grad
school and actually all the way back
till I was four years old coffee is the
fuel that keeps civilization running and
if you like your coffee there is no
reason not to be picky about it to find
that brand that's perfect for you and
that's why I'm very glad to tell you
about our new sponsor Trade coffee that
connects people with nearly 500
different coffees from Rose stores
around the country to ship you fresh
roasted coffee upgrade your morning
routine with better coffee right now
trade is offering all viewers a free bag
of coffee with any subscription at
drinktrade.com Isaac Arthur discover new
craft coffee with every deal delivery
with free shipping customizable plans
with coffees curated to your taste with
the help of matching algorithms for me
that appropriately came up as space
cadet coffee from Atomic Road stores
which was a perfect blend for smooth
cold brew with great flavor enjoy
hassle-free coffee always shipped within
48 Hours of roasting and treat yourself
to some new Brews that's drinktrade.com
Isaac Arthur for a free bag of coffee
with any subscription purchase
drinktrade.com Isaac Arthur as a quick
announcement tonight July 20th 2023 the
National Space Society will be having
its weekly online space forum and this
week is a town hall meeting with the NSS
leadership including our CEO Anita Gail
our CEO Dale scran and myself as NSS
president and many of those covering
objectives and goals for the NSS in the
neo-future it's free to attend and you
don't have to be a member I hope to see
you there and I'll link it in the
episode description
so that will wrap us up for today but
not for July join us next Thursday July
27th for a look at the future of warfare
with drop ships and planetary invasions
or boarding actions then that weekend on
Sunday the 30th we'll have our monthly
live stream q a after that we will head
into August to look at building a space
elevator not on Earth but on the moon
then we'll head trillions of years into
the future to the end of time and the
final Twilight on the last planet then
it will be time for a monthly sci-fi
Sunday on cyborg armies and if you
missed this weekend sci-fi Sunday robots
and warfare you can catch it now while
you wait if you'd like to get alerts
when those and other episodes come out
make sure to hit the like subscribe and
notification buttons you can also help
support the show on patreon and if you
want to donate and help in other ways
you can see those options by visit our
website
isaacortho.net you can also catch all of
sfia's episodes early and AD free on our
streaming service nebula along with
hours of bonus content at
go.nebula.tv slash Isaac Arthur as
always thanks for watching and have a
great week
[Music]
thank you
