recent episodes and general science
Concepts and news will be starting in
just a moment and feel free to put your
questions right into the chat for our
mods to come and scream and please try
to keep them clear legible and
understandable as always we welcome
super chats to help support the show and
you can also find links to our websites
and other options in the episode
description with all that said welcome
and let's get started
good afternoon everyone and welcome to
science and futurism with Isaac all
those monthly live stream q a as usual
we are joined by my lovely wife and
co-host Sarah falarthur who will be
taking questions from the moderators in
this case my ASCO and cindry who we
passing along to you and to her to ask
me as we get started speaking of which
have we got any questions to get started
with yes we actually have a couple from
the last live stream that people felt
like you evaded a little bit and Maya
School says you're not going to dodge
this question so the question is
which is your favorite alien species
design wise
I remember that one from last time too
okay hmm
there's so many different ways we have a
designer I can see I end up dodging that
question
um you know for simplicity's sake let's
go with the Borg from Star Trek next
Generation
Um they were actually originally
designed to be a bunch of insect
creatures rather much of a leather clad
um Borg but uh they ended up doing that
for budgetary reasons they switched them
over to being humans and that actually I
think made for a good one because well
they're a little less alien than the
insects would be you end up with the
assimilating consuming type of um Borg
from Star Trek video we're just gonna
come by your you know Planet take your
technology and then take all of you the
original version you can see the four
steps of that q in it um which is
probably the best episode of q in it to
be honest he um you know they're very
they're much interested in technology
not people and later episodes there's
some people and so they are kind of like
the uh the antithesis the Federation
they're like the Backwoods dark view of
them because all they want to do is uh
bring everybody in together as equals to
join their big Federation with one
universal mind and morality and uh and
single thought so that it's kind of a
good designer sense you can see that
actually happening and it's kind of got
a 1984 flavor to it as opposed to
something like with the Vulcans the
electronic classic Star Trek race
um but they're just supposed to be so
logical but often normally seem to
epitomize that and then as much time I
found you know Star Wars or Stargate
they didn't really have any aliens that
were terribly unique in them you know
you look like the good old Leanne
Scarlet from Stargate or The Wraith
they're not really uh a unique concept
um kind of the same for a lot of the
body snatcher ones or um ones from Star
Wars where it's impressive makeup and
impressive puppetry but not really all
that's psychologically different and
that's kind of the key one there so you
say for aliens with weird designs I
think maybe one of the ones from Jim
Henson like Star Wars or like fall
Escape that was a great series that had
the most alien designs we see for
something live action but uh when it
comes to psychology I'd say the Borg uh
when when written right probably get the
points for that it does seem like a lot
of the designs are semi-human-like and
when you're trying to aim for something
that is supposed to be so foreign to you
that you can't even imagine it yeah it
seems like maybe that falls a little bit
short of you know alien yeah cgis great
for that sort of Puppets but otherwise
you get the forehead of the week and I
think uh and you know without
criticizing that too much because you've
got to get somebody in that for God
knows how many hours of of live action
film me under lights and that's Dreadful
yes only so anti-human that they wish to
be
I was like the original Kardashian knife
from Star Trek has been wearing this big
thing that looks like like the worst
dentist nightmare of what braces should
look like that gets dropped almost right
away because the actress couldn't
possibly keep Weighing on that so but uh
yeah you were sacrificing a little bit
and that's where that suspension of
disbelief comes into so yo so you hired
some great actors great delivering lines
opportunity the facial expressions and
then the makeup covers all of that
because you have no idea as he did was
this Grand you know beautifully
delivered line and you can't heal him
through his prosthetic teeth or seeing
his facial expressions through all the
junk yeah
limitations
could cheap abundant fusion power be
attained if science found a practical
way of increasing the range or strength
of a nuclear strength um strong force
um
yes although I'd say I don't know if you
want to increase or decrease in that
contest
um that is one of those forces like the
other two big ones electric week
electric and weak on that uh
over the Electra week unified Force
that's actually all positive and
negative aspects unlike gravity which is
only attractive we believe
um if you can play with that you can
certainly change around a lot of the way
that these Force are going to play out
you change the probabilities a lot too
like they're all there are materials
that really wouldn't fall outside of
certain very rare cases like you know
Supernova or neutron star module just
because without that means so insanely
packed together there's no chance of
anything like phosphorus for instance
forming
um from Silicon but um
yeah you could do Fusion easier that way
I think that point though you're not
really needing to do classic Fusion
anymore if you can play with these
strong force at all you might be able to
start 20 bits of matter into bits of
energy or just trying to reconfigure and
they're just found some completely
different stable state that couldn't
normally exist in nature we have an
episode coming up soon warping reality
which I think soon is actually probably
late may but whooping reality that we'll
discuss that more it's we decided to
look at all the topics such as bending
space time that you do when you stop
playing a physical constants and things
like that and it's a good episode coming
up
uh next question or comment is from Mr
Mahan he says hello Isaac and Sarah my
question is is it possible to create
black holes artificially as opposed to a
natural collapse yeah I mean the thing
is either you do in nature you should be
able to do artificially too that's the
whole point of Technology
um you find some phenomena in nature and
you figure out a way to reproduce it
artificially in a controlled and then
mutated way so there are two ways we
think black horse can come into
existence in the universe right now
actually let me present there's three
right
option was the one everybody knows
that's where you have a really big star
it just detonates and then it implodes
in the core and that turns into a black
or seven neutron star in practice
probably because it's a neutron star
then maybe a quark or plank style and
the fastest and falling into that black
hole but that's you know seconds that
takes option two is where you take
something big already like a neutron
star and either combine it with another
neutron star or a white wolf or a bunch
of raw matter in some way that allows it
to just fall into being above the mass
and become a black hole uh that could be
very explosive too though so you can
also destroy neutron stars doing that
um option three and maybe it should be
option one because earlier is the idea
that the very beginning of time you'd
have black horse forming up and the
universe was supposed to be much Denso
and that reads all this question of back
when the universe was so small you could
fit all into something the size of a
tennis ball the inflationary Epoch or
what kept did from becoming a black hole
and so that's that's a trickier question
you might think to answer but it
actually works out because of everything
being equally spread around it so you
can't collapse this way because the
stuff on this side yeah this side here
this side of the opponia too but um
in this case we think of primordial
black holes potentially existing that
would be much less massive and we look
for evidence of them but there's whole
range of them will be very hard for us
to see if they existed so we are not to
be optimistic about primordial black
holes existing that's the other natural
way they might form and those will be
far less massive than the three solar
masses that you get out of something
like a neutron star being built up
bigger or a big old Supernova explosion
uh estimated them themselves yeah you
can make them much less massive without
even really getting a really complicated
artificial techniques like a Google Plus
we try to slam a bunch of lasers or
mesons together to make one you just
take a gigantic ball of iron the thing
they can't use in the first place and
you just keep pulling more of it in the
same place until you get to a gigantic
ball of iron as big as you can before
either collapse in on itself into a
black hole at some point or you go ahead
and Surround it with a whole bunch of
nuclear bombs and have them all
simultaneously detonate I might be the
same way we do with normal conventional
surround uranium to set that off you
also use another material potentially
like uranium instead but I unlead those
who do the trick and there's a real
place to fuse up to and then you
potentially have one that was much
smaller now that might be much smaller
the mass of Jupiter but it all depends
on what your technology allows
experimentation is kind of required if
you have and then we can do it slamming
two big balls of iron into each other at
relativistic speeds out of a railgun
like 99.99 of light speed that should do
the trick too
well uh our next question is actually a
super chat from Sean McMaster and we
really appreciate everyone who takes the
time to send us the little donations
that help keep this live stream going
thank you Sean he says Isaac have you
read all tomorrows by cm kozman and
would you consider making sci-fi Sunday
episodes on specific books
I know the book title but I can't
I'm trying to think about the cover on
I'm definitely not invented though I'm
afraid it's probably one of those ones
that people suggested me a few times
would be familiar which is how I often
up reading books these days if enough
people recommend them
um yes I would actually consider doing
like specialized episodes on one
specific thing but usually instead of
let's review the foundation series by
asmov I'd say let's review cycle history
instead we have an episode on psycho
history from way back that I probably
should redo at some point
um a lot of the episodes from season two
of three ab and slowly redoing here and
there is expanded forms
um but uh because we have so much better
audio visual these days
um
there's a few that I would actually
consider potentially doing just as their
own standalones but like next month's
sci-fi Sunday episode is Hive words and
someone's pulling in next to the window
in my office the moment
probably Amazon
they are so welcome to certain times
like this you should pause and tell them
about Gia or I'm sorry about the
youngest son yeah we can't officially
say yeah
um so remind me where I was after with
that episode so high Wards our sci-fi
Sunday for the next month and that's
kind of like a 40K ish episode War him
before the Case episode but it's about
the topic of 40K and I mean that topic
from there now the setting itself I
would consider doing something that's
more setting specific but I'm not really
a book reviewer that's a you know I mean
I do review books but it's more like uh
you know this audible episode sponsored
by a type thing uh and here's a book I
liked and why real quick but uh so I'll
I'll youngest son whose name we cannot
say at this time uh uh he is at home
with me doing today as often my office
so when Amazon appears he will go run
outside to say hello to the Amazon
delivery person which is right by my
office window so I can see and be safe
and he likes to collect the packages and
he's learned how to read the last couple
of months and so
um not terribly well but you can read
some you can read his own name he knows
who take the package to and so he gone
out and picked up you know above the
packages and it was actually his
birthday I gotta clean off but I'm not
expect this package it had his name on
it so he sees it and Amazon does handy
too he's like this one's for me and he
jumps like a foot up in the air and the
Amazon Guy starts backing off slowly
like that's good he was like Daddy Daddy
saw my day about it by allowed to open I
was like well I can't open that's yours
and so the his two older siblings were
getting home off the bus just to mail it
to you later maybe 10 minutes later and
so he got a coloring book from our
friends David
um had sent to him it was a very nice
coloring book he loved the coloring book
but he loved the envelope even more
because he takes off running when the
Bus shows up down the driveway leaving
the package around left right I got a
package
birthdays are more exciting when you're
young yeah
as you age they start to keep you more
and more Dreadful
oh my our next question is from Bernie
Sanders hi Isaac what ones of
entertainment do you think could arise
in the future and what sports or
activities could be developed in zero g
uh you know just staying on topic you'd
always be surprised by what new things
technology will now like the sport of
chasing the Amazon package down
riding the Drone yeah I mean you could
do instead of period
um what's one where you're flying with
the parachute that you could do you
could do that with drones now yeah you
could actually do that yeah the other
one I was like telling you was the um
the idea that you know if you got an
orbital ring built 80 miles off the air
jump off that into the ocean where like
um you would need a pressure suit first
so you didn't die all the way down but
it's just a minor detail let's see with
live extensions always think if you can
set people because they're biologically
Immortal uh then you know the you you're
doing on each anymore you could simply
stop taking whatever you do for that or
you could say you know I'm just going to
have increasingly Reckless behaviorals
because I believe suicide is wrong so
I'm going to start the new sport of
chasing down lions with enough bat you
know let's see if I survived that or
ordering jumping into a thing of sharks
and see what happens uh increasingly
Reckless Hobbies is definitely one of
those options because you get better
medicine you know uh I'm not gonna tease
you when things were like base jumping
that is a very dangerous sport uh or
cliff diving where you're either you
know there's two skill levels in cliff
diving you got Grand Master and stuff
like a rock yeah
I would say that there's all sorts of
hobbies you have in the future but a lot
of them are not I mean gravity different
gravity is going to be a big one for
that obviously but I think that mostly
it's going to be
things you couldn't normally do if you
were human
Milano says real life nanotech seems to
be based on carefully folded proteins
how plausible is sci-fi nanotech like
utility fog or the various
self-assembling superhero suits
um you know episode small metal goes
into that a lot more detail and the
answer is kind of sort of yes uh maybe
the most realistic really powerful
villain I could think of for a while uh
that was in the movie was actually not
in the best movie I could think of
either
um it was uh the tomodito Genesis film
by tomato five I guess it would be
really not the best of that franchise
although the only one or two are very
good Oh I thought salvation was okay
anyway the bad guy there who is John
Connor is made out of tiny little
machines he's made of tiny little robots
instead be like liquid metal or just a
big cyborg body he's made of a bunch of
tiny machines which will be microscopic
but not nanoscopic and so that's an
example of how you could potentially
have
um
smoke metal it's not going to be as
strong as it won't matter though this
thing like that is it's being held
together by women's clasps is not not by
molecular Atomic bonds so when you start
making stuff out of small metal quick
metal programmable metal don't expect to
be as strong as a the real thing or look
good at everything automatically if you
want uh to have little Nanobots race
into material and get all the metals out
what you instead do is tell it to go
build you a kiln and knock them out the
old-fashioned way
um so they certainly be very helpful and
I think we will see them pop up but I
think we'll mostly see them as medical
nanotechnology or pale things inside
devices were found of like our house so
I'll call because in those cases you
don't really want to replace the
components you know we don't really want
a new hand what we want is for the
current one to keep working and stay in
good shape so you want the little
Nanobots that are going to go fix your
arthritis for you rather than give you a
new hand and you don't mind if those
Nanobots cost a thousand dollars a
leader where someone's like I would like
to use a thousand dollar you know
Nanobots to make a piece of cider box
someone says go pour some great
they're not likely to ever be as
efficient as more industrial scale
technology and that tends to be where
the applications think would be
Christian Carrillo thank you for your
super chat again this week if space
steering aliens exist would their ships
look very similar to if not exactly like
what we would build meaning no specific
Aesthetics no species-specific
Aesthetics okay so the idea of the
opinion is that you get convergence on
Technologies because this thing works
right and when you think about like
something like a house we use a
rectilineo design on houses these days
because we use a lot of wood to build
with and when we don't we tend to use
steel and because we're boring we are
born yeah
but uh like old pyramid style stuff are
the ideas you build everything brick
style where you have just a little bit
of overhang with each new brick because
you have that person lentil option
um there's only four ways of building
stuff like and I don't know if they all
eyes but it's for them posting lint or
the old steeped way they did that the um
with like pyramid Style with stone
blocks and then your Archway and then
there's another one I don't remember
what it is so if you have any
architecture in the Forum please put
that in the chat
um
but they're going to be limited by those
same things same as their ax looks the
same as always it might be a little bit
bigger or smaller it might be a little
bit more Polished in some way but it's
the same but it's probably made out of
the same metal if you're looking at a
prehistoric museum on some other planet
of all the tools they've got they
probably look very similar the scale
might be a bit different right
um but not always universally so because
like if you are 20 foot tall aliens you
probably don't get away with using
really soft bronze as much because it
doesn't help you much you can't afford
the weight
um don't assume would look exactly the
same and none of our stuff really is
streamlined for too long we tend to stop
putting stuff on it the biggest thing is
all of all ships look the same in sci-fi
because we had really simple models so
we had to physically assemble or CGI
that was little polygons as you notice
and the more complicated things will get
you never see an integral ships and uh
yet in practice there's probably going
to be their rocket looks the same as all
Rockets they are you know neolight speed
shipped it looks the same as ours so the
words might look different a lot of the
flare is gonna look different but yeah
the basic design probably same the coral
probably looks like ours
withering liberal says do you believe
like many Tech luminaries that AI
research should be halted for six months
I have to say I find that one a little
strange just on the qualifier being
research as opposed to application or
public use or yeah you don't really want
to stop the yeah I I agree on that you
don't really want to stop the actual
development I
David Brin who is a friend of mine I'm
glad to say these days he wrote his
first book that was uh you know the best
seller from the upload Saga that you I
was born so I've grown up eating stuff
that I admile him and I'm always
impressed he actually takes my emails
um he was just recently sent me one a
few others he run a little orgly written
on his own response to that petition and
he not only using universally agree on
certain things but I usually find him to
be pretty inspirational on these kind of
topics so I suggest go to David Ben's
website it's a contrary friend leader
that article be the first one of the
Republic
um he talks about that petition a little
bit they are and the thing is
uh you know I agree with him it's it's
it's not really based on much of
anything chat GPT is certainly not
something you wanted to let's just keep
rolling in the void
um you gotta put restraints on things
but not because of not this is not the
reason to stop it at this point in time
well in research is different than
public use I mean yeah limiting public
use on a university having someone
chewed on a paper is a lot different
than researching whether or not it's
able to mimic human ability absolutely
yeah and I think the biggest thing is
chat GPT is the very overhyped thing of
this year
um I remember what five six years ago
maybe it was the other this thing is
fine reached the point where it can uh
pretend and pass a touring test because
it returned was a 10 year old boy from
another country who didn't speak English
well and it was fooling people chat GPT
did not impress me all that much all
right because it was really obviously in
AI now what I know was obviously in AI
if I hadn't been staring there looking
and asking out questions no no I
wouldn't notice if my robot had spent my
flaws post to my wife or my son you know
or yeah
I did that the robot didn't recently
okay the robot's not been active well no
the robot's been fine so something in
front of it that was a problem I think
we should continue researching AI vacuum
sweepers
ones without me
boy being
a chat GPT is very impressive it's one
of those first cases where we got like
something that's actually useful for
talking to people in a vaguely
conversational way to get information
out of them but the big thing is it's
not really all that advanced it's just
filling in you know it says well this
little good people no what a horrible
paper it would it only passed because
the post has low standards for like a
college freshman somebody sent me one
they said this one I told them right in
the style of you and this you know I
thought it sounded a bit like you I'm
looking like my god well one is it you
know it could tell it wasn't me because
it had so many run-on sentences but it's
like this does not sound like me where's
the expected things you're supposed to
be like needless to say indeed you know
grab a drink of snack let's missing
those
that's how we know it's not not you no
gravity drinking a snack oh my the point
that Bryn made I thought was really
effective I was putting out moratoriums
haven't tried before on technology
to basically no effect whatsoever
um you always say I'm going to declare
this to be a nuclear free zone did you
tell our enemies then do they care
I was gonna not nuke it now
um I like the idea of restrictions and
regulation on AI and that time has got
to come sooner than later but just
saying no we're not gonna do any more
research on no we're not gonna you know
no you keep doing research on it for now
just carefully transparently you don't
make people start doing it in the corner
the last thing you want with the
dangerous technology is for the people
who have been researching it and believe
it's valuable to feel obliged to run off
to the middle of nowhere to do the stuff
in secret on a huge shoestring budget
for fear getting caught that's how you
get Skynet right that's how you get the
dangerous AI that escapes from the lab
because the lab is not well guarded and
protected you know
Mr Mark Meadowland says on an
on an I'm sorry on an Interstellar
Highway what a previous series of ships
exhaust become a breaking medium yes uh
not too much of one to be fair but yes
it depends on how tight the corridor is
obviously
um
as we get one of those things is if
you're part of a caravan of ships you
don't want to fly too close to each
other and even though the very best
direction to aim your thrust is exactly
behind you 100 behind you you're not
losing that much thrust by angling out
at say one degree in which case you know
the ships behind you saw is not too
close it's not hitting them you kind of
want your particles spraying out in
opposite you know at a bit of an angle
um that also makes you a lot harder to
follow if you're trying to be covert you
know uh that said you'll always have a
little bit of a spleen back behind you
uh same for photons going down there too
this also act as a breaking medium the
cosmic microwave background radiation
connect is a breaking medium for you
it's hitting you constantly at higher
speed it becomes a big deal so that is
one of those factors there is if you
have a bunch of people going down the
same road all those relativistic
particles coming from behind it's not
just a breaking medium for you too
although that can be handy and that
actually could be advantageous
situations it's also an erosion and
damage issue too
asks what would an orbital only Mission
to Mars or Venus accomplish and what
advantages could a human crew have over
just deploying probes into orbit
um I think the thing is
I I actually can't remember who it was
going to do the orbit around the moon
but didn't get to land on it but uh I
don't mean the other person on the
mission didn't go down it's almost like
Apollo thought you know not Apollo 13
Apollo 11 Etc uh two down one stays
around orbiting the place
um I don't want to spend four or five
months you know flying to Mars or longer
uh and then have to wait on another
place until everyone's ready to pack up
and go home whatever it is to come back
and that that's not a trip you want to
make by just going around to a circle
and then not even lie on the other
planet
um that said there are people who
something would still volunteer to do
that you know and say well that's too
bad I still could be forced to orbit
Mars
um
we should investigate Phobos and Nemos
first if they have one or that all Force
missions should be to one of them you
know if there's ice sale that's all we
need to replace fuel with if they don't
have it and they're very tight so they
might not they're not like moons like oh
is there Crags like seven miles across
you know they may have nothing on them
in value but if they do then they should
be off for stops they should be wearing
separate fueling base and it'll be nice
to do that with a robot than with a man
Mission I think the only reason I send a
manned mission there right now is to do
the flag plants even though basically
there's a lot of stuff that you need to
have people on the spot with and they
could do it remotely by robot from orbit
to be fair too
um but at the moment I really rather we
don't Mission build up their first with
robots including either base it up then
you send people in uh you know
it's going to be a very expensive time
consuming that everyone's gonna be
watching you want to minimize the chance
that instead of a Victory Parade when
you get home it's a funeral Cortez so do
as much pre-automated Landing stuff as
you can do the orbits do the moons and
then land when you are confidently or
the 95 plus percent chance of mission
success but you probably do want to land
at some point I mean thinking about the
Apollo 8 you know the first three
astronauts that orbited only I guess
only one of them uh actually orbited
twice and never got a set foot on the
moon and that was uh gym level oh yeah
yeah but the other two with them both
got to land in their second mission and
can you imagine being the one who didn't
get to land twice but I mean it's still
you know 12 people have walked on the
moon period 12 people you think that's
less than one per year and let's fall
off and things and less than like a half
of one per year or a third of one I mean
we're cutting them up into pieces at
this part yeah
it is a shame that we haven't gone back
by that we'll probably change soon
thankfully I think though that uh
if if you're the poor I mean the fact
that we go oh like him how would I
forget him it's still an important job
to be the first person to open the moon
and I would say maybe just say hey if
you do if you're the one on that we will
if yeah we'll give you that chance to be
on one of those missions coming up soon
so but the thing is I don't want to send
six person missions there one time I
want to stand up
big Expedition so a super chat from
Martin Stallard thank you Martin if
aliens visit us should we be worried
about bacterial infections
um yes I say um
most you probably know if you watch
regularly this one little clip of three
aliens drinking beer at a table that I
told a lot and about part way through
but really one of them follows oval uh
there's a tricky be on but just like
Falls over on the floor and Ken Yorker
put that together as a joke for one of
our episodes I can't which one it was
but the tagline on it was alien beer
it's to die for
so it comes to alien Cuisine it is
almost no scenario where you could
possibly digest the stuff where it would
not be in some way very bad for you
um and same for them and us but
the thing about beer is that you need
those those bacteria those bacteria
yeast to grow with like all that little
micro life and has to be in a setting
that can actually adapt to the area
around it so if someone's like I want to
have romulanail or some other you know
bootleg booze that'll sneaky in you know
like it was Cuban cigars or something
like that that's a very good way to
cause invasive species to get on your
planet that's gonna tank the entire
ecology
um you know a little bacteria right we
probably aren't going to be compatible
they say could I get an alien virus and
say well probably not viruses are virus
is not really alive right they're all a
tiny
machine basically for our practical
purposes that does one very simple
stupid task over and over again by
hijacking your existing stuff and they
do that by being adapted to you that's
why you can sneeze on your kid or have
your kid come up and say Daddy I don't
feel well give me a hug and you get a
quote from them but your cat's fine
right your cat doesn't get a cord from
that it can't jump from you to your cat
or your dog uh and an alien is much less
closely related as it were so you're not
gonna get a virus from an alien or vice
versa but they're bacteria that's a
different story right you absolutely can
get the bacteria because that's a
complete life form if it can survive in
your environment for more than a few
seconds it can start reproducing and
then now you have some horrible alien
bacteria or sprawling across your
continents and you know doing well we're
doomed yeah
trial exact could two relatively same
mass planets share an orbit around a
star at the L3 points of each other
um
just like the numbers real quick and say
yeah yeah okay so that's a counter auth
um that was actually really popular
before we had our first probes we could
actually see around the other side of
the earth which was until like the 60s
or 70s that we could actually tell that
there wasn't something happens inside so
here's us he was the Sun and off screens
like uh here's us here's the sun sun and
then here's another planet over here so
I'm over here on the other side of the
Sun from us and it orbits the same speed
as us and so we never see it and that's
kind of tricky with elliptical orbits to
begin with Because unless they're the
exact same one you're going to have
multiple ones lagging the other orbit a
little bit you don't actually orbit the
same speed around the Sun the whole time
only if you're on a circle but counter
also really popular I'm trying to think
of some examples of the first one that
comes to mind is the Alpha Series go off
video but it was very popular for a
while as uh yeah kind of a mid 20th
century uh option for aliens they lived
on the counter instead of Mars
um that's not stable though that's the
problem is you could make one like that
so you had aliens who decided to go put
a counter on there yes it's a great
place to put your local Interstellar
Basin Beacon for sending news home about
what's going on with Earth and you're a
smaller actual telescopes around the
solar system that we've noticed
um but it's not really a stable orbital
path really nothing other than L4 and L5
really are even that's kind of iffy so
midnight Road Studio says is there an
upper limit to how large a black hole
could be
yes there's absolutely an upper limit to
how big a black hole can be uh it cannot
be bigger than the universe in which it
is from
that that's quite the narrow uh um
limitation there based on current yeah
that's not very easy to do the thing
about black holes is that if you double
the mass you double the diameter of it
right which is kind of means that if you
have a black hole that is most things if
you you need to make an eight times more
massive to make it double as y because
you have eight times the value if you
double the double the radius black hole
Event Horizon scale up linear to mass
which means if you have one then say one
light year across then all you need to
be a thousand light years across
um is because the galactic core right
would be the thousand times the mass
um if you have one that is a trillion
times a massive it's a trillion times
wider but the most match you actually
have in one right now would be based on
how much that mass would have been in
that spot class or into it when the
universe have gotten wide enough that
you can actually have black holes
forming as it were from Stellar events
and that would be probably
100 billion I'm sure there's actual
biggest known black or the one I can't
remember what it is but billions of
solar masses easily right but uh
probably less than a trillion solar mass
at this point and you're very unlikely
to have any black holes that will be
more than an order of magnitude bigger
than that because they're not going to
be bigger than the biggest galaxies or
we must have some viewers with a lot of
reading time on their hands coming up
because infinite monkey wants to know
your top 10 sci-fi books infinite
monkeys always have a lot of reading
time they should be busy writing that's
it
um you know way back in I was the
Doomsday argument one of the episodes
that was never really popular memorable
other the fact I decided at some point
doing it to list off like my top 10
favorite things people are asking
um it's like a season two episode
um I put like my 10 favorite uh
musicians 10 favorite books 10 favorite
films
um was it books they won by 10 favorite
books or book series
uh um favorite book series Doug Sam's
hitchhiko's Guide to the Galaxy and I
will kind of throw his uh his not quite
series with Duke gently in there too
um then after that Roger was the last
season's Amber series that was a very
good one um it's kind of sci-fi fancy
but it's very good very philosophical
um and then I'd say after that just
because of familiarity with it uh
Foundation series
um I am very fond of Robert Jordan's
Wheel of Time series you can't let your
favorites all change Brandon Sanderson
who finished that up he's my favorite
fancy writer uh his Cosby or I guess
you'd say Saga there's a bunch of them
though and I think I've if you see it as
a book of the month it really is one of
those books I'm very fond of sometimes
it was a book I like that was also very
appropriate to the topic for the episode
other times it's just one of my
favorites so Dune is a huge one for me I
love Doom the main books though even
though the last couple can get a little
bit weird but those would be the ones
then we have a super chat thank you from
Miami's last capitalist we appreciate uh
your ongoing support so what is your
least favorite alien in all of sci-fi
oh good god
um
I will answer that question after we
come back from all breaks oh wait wait
there's three more parts of that
question I was just hanging it there
yeah
all right go ahead and why are they
Ewoks LOL great job on life on the giant
Moon episode
it is he walks well at least it should
be after this message we'll be right
back
so we'll be on break for a few minutes
while Sarah and I are grabbing are
drinking a snack and you may have
noticed that today's live stream is not
on our usual last Sunday of the month
and that's because Sarah and I have our
wedding anniversary the last weekend of
April so we will be off on our trip
that's also true for the last weekend of
May this year as the National Space
Society will be hosting the
International Space development
conference that last weekend on May 25th
through 28th at the Embassy Suites by
Hilton Dallas Frisco Hotel and
Convention Center in Frisco Texas we
tried doing a live stream during the
event last year but it was kind of
tricky to juggle in there and I was just
a guest last time not the president so I
figure I'll be doing enough walking and
bubblegum chewing already and we'll be
doing the live stream the weekend before
Sunday May 21st at 4 pm as usual I will
be around there and doing some talking
as will some other awesome folks Daniel
Sarah's best-selling author of Delta V
among them and if you haven't already
read that I strongly recommend it it is
a great novel on a real page Turner
though my favorite page was the
acknowledgments since our show is in
there he just released the sequel
critical mass and that tears the tale of
trying to rescue stranded crew members
of an asteroid Mighty mission in the not
too distant future so if you're looking
for a good read I'd recommend it and you
want to meet him or David Livingston
host the space show or pascali chairman
of the Mars Institute and a study
scientist or Rod Pyle Editor in Chief of
the Ad Astra magazine and host of this
week in space or tons of other great
minds and up-and-comers in space and
you're in the Dallas area this Memorial
Day Weekend swing by the conference I'll
leave a link for registration in the
episode description the theme for isdc
2023 is a new space people living in
working and thriving in communities
beyond Earth and the use of the vast
resources of space for dramatic
betterment of humanity the isdc is where
space leaders astronauts enthusiasts and
the next generation of young students
and professionals gather each year
regular officials include Talks by
government and Industry leaders panels
are the latest developments in space
technology and related fields exhibits
from private space companies and an
unparalleled opportunity to meet and
interact with people who make the future
happen I'm hoping to get some great
episode ideas from it isdc 2023 will
host various sessions and workshops
focused in multiple areas of space
development moon and Mars exploration
and settlement deep space exploration
Innovative technology science Fiction's
influence in today's technology
commercialization of space collaboration
in space asteroids space solar power
space debris and space law and policy
among others and again next month's live
stream will be May 21st the second to
last Sunday rather than the 28th as I
will be at the isdc as you come by
please come up and say hi
and with all that said let's get back to
the show and more of your questions
so why why Ewoks are evil
um
I had to rewatch I think I mentioned
this episode I had to re-watch the Ewok
films showing my eldest son who I also
not named the Star Wars Clone Wars films
other ones we also got through the main
films we were trying to just go through
all your stuff and I didn't want to have
him watch Force awakens or Last Jedi or
rise of Skywalker yet because I hate
those films and feel like they shouldn't
exist
[Laughter]
um and uh you know I'd say uh I was
minded that before that before they made
those films I was never a big fan of the
prequels either and uh I was not a big
fan of the Ewok films the holiday
special which is where Boba Fett wolf
showed up
um
but uh so you can have bad Cannon Wars
even in the early days I would say with
the Ewoks that I think the reason I ever
liked them was I understand you know I
completely get what their point was in
the film they were sort of the Via Khan
thing beating up the evil empire but
they're just a bunch of random little
teddy bears with sharp stones and they
are cannibals or at least if not they're
cannibals guys you know as we all say
you know hungry aliens episode which
comes out at a high Wards in middle of
May uh it's technically not cannibalism
if you're eating aliens
what is it called then alienism yeah it
can't be Catalyst if it's not the
closest happens to be with any other
Ascension creatures that's very clearly
implied in the film you know so
um not a big fan of those creatures also
it's just the Stormtroopers are supposed
to be the elites of the elites and they
do such a bad job in Star Wars keeping
that there because they can't hit the
Blind Side of the bone and they're
supposed to be so
tough and they bring that up with
prequels is to show the other these
Elite clone troopers uh and they're good
but then they apparently you're really
bad after a while and stop using clones
and then Finn's character from the
sequels I loved Finn in the very opening
scene of that he looked like he was
really awesome character he's like yeah
all right YouTube it's like to be a
stormtrooper the poor guy's been raised
a brainwashed Charlotte he's breaking
free he should be impressive and then
they constantly play him for Laughs
until he somehow managed to actually
stand up in a fight even briefly
one-on-one with uh you know a Jedi or a
Sith he said this guy's very very tough
but then they say what's he what was his
job as a stormtrooper like oh he was in
he was a janitor
it's like that that's not a lead Trooper
maybe maybe he practiced a lot with the
broom in the box or something well okay
it doesn't matter if you have special
forces I'll be Ranger whatever it is if
you're in the military yes you spend a
lot of time pushing a broom or mop
that's character building as one of my
drawer soldiers like to tell us a lot
I have a lot of Kyoto built for us
but you know it's just I I feel like
your character building assists you with
your fighting skills
let's go with yes why not
I always felt like film was a very
wasted character because he could have
been so so much more interesting they
kind of like wrecked his orc a couple
times with my opinion tried to rebuild
it but I don't know I gather there's
going to be a sequel to the sequels now
and uh I go to all these on the
assumptions that it has a chance of
being good that's why I watched the
Andor series on even though I was very
upset with Disney for a while and I
loved that that was a great Series so
it's just proved that it's always worth
giving things another chance you know
well let's give you another chance to
answer that question I'm sure you've
heard before from Christian corello
thank you again for your Super Chat
Christian of all the different types of
aliens that you've talked about before
grabby smug stupid covert AI Etc which
do you think that we are the most likely
to encounter
some point I actually need to make a
list of all that we have episode list of
what all the videos you know insert
adverb you know adjective Aliens
episodes we've had
um but uh I'm gonna say
I got to stretch somebody was asking
audio if I'd review individual series if
based on the the side rant on Star Wars
the extra should probably be no
so what was that question again
your most likely Alien Encounter oh and
most likely AI aliens oh that's that's
weird so there's AI aliens are most
likely forced to encounter with aliens
what he'd be something that was
post-humal post alien or was their
automated Pro
um either that or it would be you know
the non-intelligent your background
radiation of the civilization that we
detected with like dysonian seti uh that
that one's the easy one for that would
be that would be that example
um either that or the kind that you
can't have conversations with which is
relativistic humor so aliens which is
where they just open the door by saying
hello boom no conversation boom
well in that case we probably wouldn't
have much left to uh yeah
so we have another Super Chat here from
rusted thank you from a fellow Army
veteran thanks for what you do Isaac I
don't have immediate family but instead
I earnestly anticipate your videos and
think about my childhood dreams of being
an astronaut thanks man well thank you
too and who are
Albert Jackson welcome back on the
program hi Isaac and Sarah for using
artificial black holes for power
generation what impact would having
access to far more energy via Penrose
process have even if you could only have
one I'm not sure how this one is Google
Blitz Google Blitz yeah cougar Blitz as
opposed to a kilowatt a cuckoo Blitz
okay so well the Penrose mechanism isn't
the one for the for Google buds black
hole the cuckoo Blitz black hole
technically is how you form them that's
the one where you're doing basically a
lightning strike a whole bunch of
different laser beams altogether the
cars would be formed from a very high
energy density of photons uh the Penrose
mechanism and that usually applies a
very small black hole
um the short-lived kind and maybe a
megawatt I'm inside making one make a
ton at most
um
the Penrose ones usually assume a much
bigger black hole that you're actually
feeding into like you can clean a
natural one because Dependable mechanism
is basically getting energy off it where
you throw banana around the uh
around the Blackboard to be absorbed
into it excuse me
um
but uh both of them are very easy
mechanisms to get power off of if you've
got the actual device there because
hockey radiation is coming off almost
entirely in gamma radiation we assume uh
we have not actually experienced a
proved hockey radiation uh it'd be very
hard to
um and then for the pen mode mechanism
that's that's simple that works off on a
really massive object to be fair too uh
what you're basically just doing is
dropping an object down there and all
the radiation in the midst as it gains
energy and follows into that gravity
well you'll suck you up in some of the
fashion as the photons come up and
that's just how do I gain power off a
very bright energy source and
potentially photoelectric but if it's in
gamma then just by absorbing it and the
degree of efficiency that you can do off
that is
variable on your technology
um
if you only had one though like if
you're doing the penal spectacular mouth
that you could never make an artificial
black hole you just had to use ones that
naturally formed we talked about that a
little bit and I'll colonizing black
holes episode is you can't make them if
that turns out to be the case so you use
the ones you naturally find and you know
there's nothing like there's I think
there may be one within a thousand light
years of us there's not that many black
holes out there there's really a
billionaire Galaxy and some of the world
most of the others have been ejected
from the Galaxy by now
um if you find one of them at that point
it was a gold mine and you just dump
Mana into it any matter at all because
you can at such a ridiculously high uh
you know efficiency of power over there
that you're probably going to go ahead
and build a big sphere around that build
your machos show what about that Empower
a gigantic Mega civilization there
if you find one you build an Empire
there I wanted to give everybody a 10
minute warning that we are planning to
do a lightning round this episode which
is five minutes of Rapid Fire questions
so if you have a short yes no or half a
sentence question that you want to get
in for the lightning round pop it in now
so that we can get those uh to test
Isaac's brain power at the end of the
episode and
see if we can give him a grain meltdown
how that sounds like so much fun I would
say probably I'll give him quickly
because I know my escrow has to actually
copy them out they don't see them so
they would have Sarah we use Discord
it's like the side I think these get
pulled from YouTube into Discord over
the whole phone then over to me I've
actually seen them as they come up but I
can't like concentrate on them what's
our next question money or it is from
void would the fact that Hollow spheres
have no net gravity inside them cause
problems for building shell worlds no uh
each additional layer has gravity on the
outside so it keeps stacking Hollow
layers up that you keep adding to the
gravity uh and so your larger space
right you keep the gravity the same on
each successive layer
um but in terms of building inside them
whatever your anchor is in the middle
which I usually assume is either the
original planet or a black hole
um is you know the thing you have to
bounce off is it's your foundation right
uh you do have to have some way of
asking yourself on that maybe it's
magnetically maybe it's by dumping
matter streams into it that using your
power plants that shell that your full
shell around that though has to be
stabilized and that's the tricky one but
much like with the ring wall situation
of a not being gravitational bounce
around sun it is just a matter of
actually just actively maintaining that
as opposed to just assuming it's going
to naturally be there like we don't
we're building foundations of big you
know buildings check and make sure it
stays aligned with the core of the
planet because everything between us and
there does is such a does it that's how
you work and ground suddenly you just
have to do the same kind of thing a
little bit more actively with your basic
layer of that at that point everything
machined above that is just fine
thank you Thor johaz I'm sorry if I'm
not pronouncing that quite right thank
you very much for your very generous
Super Chat hi Isaac I really enjoyed
your content I can't help but wonder how
or why our physicists so confident in
their estimated age of the universe
given that time runs slower when going
near a very massive object the universe
used and and that the university used to
be vastly more dense uh you know I I we
had that compound misconception about
space-time episode that I think has
probably been played up on the screen
there I actually talk about that a
little bit and they are when I was a kid
the number was 9 to 20 billion years old
that was the estimate 9 to 20 and a lot
of people say well maybe it's like 50.
there was a very famous plasma cosmology
uh book The Big Bang never happened by
Eric loner I think that uh oh you had to
be 100 billion years old based on the
you know Dynamics formed uh which has
been since ruled out but that 13 billion
figure we always say that's round two
you don't round 13 billion uh
13.787 is equivalent figure that's a
horde and that doesn't matter 14.
um but until the late 90s the number was
really broad
um as to why we've got that nailed down
more
it it just has to do with the expansion
rate I mean literally all we're doing to
get that number is taking the
measurements of all these various
galaxies basically off of their various
Supernova that we can calculate off of
and saying based on this number this is
when they should all have been back in
the same spot there's no magic that we
have a number of other ways we kind of
secondarily conform that like how old
the oldest star is that we can find that
kind of thing how long galaxies could
have taken a form like that how what
gravity should be doing in an
expansionary Universe if things were
falling together over that much time Etc
there's a lot of things that help to
conform that number as being the right
Zone but that's the one that we're like
is this absolutely the right number no
it's it's 13.7 plus or minus something
another with a big mulch available for
the possibility that we're just wrong
about things it happens sometimes but
I'd say that number as confident from a
scientific perspective that I've had
problems for you how you'd
I'd have promising how that could be
wrong at this point in time to be honest
but you always have to keep their mind
it could just be something really bad
about your estimates it could for
instance be a 1000 year old simulation
that we're all in for instance Matrix
style things like that
NSA cockroach says orbital rings are
made rigid via the inner rotating ring
but this rotation doesn't stabilize the
Ring's center of gravity how would one
stabilize such a ring around an object
with no solid surface all right yeah
this comes up a lot of times with the
idea of because it'll say well you could
go around an equator and I'll say oh you
could put it at angle too you can't do
that it would possess like well yes what
it suddenly possessed they said that we
have a tethers down the ground the whole
point of an orbital ring uh but I should
say the whole point the main point of an
orbital ring that when Paul Bush was
saying it was as a ground transport
mechanism we could potentially build
them as a shell water under the plants
for instance which gets a little bit
trickier but if you're using his ground
mechanism then your ring is stabilized
by the tether to the ground that you
used to climb up to the ring that's you
have a whole bunch of those and those
are incredibly strong you know they all
really strong cables that's that's true
billion miles the strongest things
you've got
because that controls how to move things
up and that's what keeps them from
processing or wobbling or tilting the
ring the other tether isn't going to
stop it from falling down but then the
tether on the other side of the planet
won't let it fall down because that'll
be pulling on it if you're looking for
some more interesting examples of that
being explained see how tethered Rings
episode which does that without active
support uh where everything is being
held to the ground it kept from falling
by hanging from the ground in the air it
which makes sense on a 3D sphere or seed
tethered rings from last year for
details keen and Grace thank you also
for your large Super Chat we really
appreciate your support to stay on this
stream and he says thanks for the great
work you bring new ideas to
long-standing Concepts which introduces
a lot of plot holes and a lot of the
Sci-Fi content it makes me go talk about
that at all what
thank you uh and this is the big one
never let your enjoyment of a piece of
Science Fiction be ruined by the bad
signs that but if you're a Rio do keep
in mind that really bad examples of that
make it hard for you know what they're
talking about not to stop laughing the
whole time it breaks your suspension
disbelief so do your research but don't
let it vacuum like an episode for you
though Keenan continues which makes me
go wow how didn't the creator of that
content think of this use case
I have sci-fi items write me a lot about
how plasma something is I'll tell them
the same thing but uh sometimes you got
a plot in mind you say it needs to be
good enough you know it's like I've got
a whole book written not me I don't like
to write books but I got a whole book
written that's kind of story unit that's
based around this one thing and now
someone's going to point out that that
is wrong it's like that's such a good
story it's such a good plan if I try to
re-engineer around that it you know it
could turn into a dumpster file very
quickly so screw it suspension disbelief
hopefully people won't get too upset
about it but there does need to be some
plausibility Factor at some point in
time yeah almost every famous piece of
sci-fi has huge gaping holes in it too
dude it doesn't have to be sci-fi
it doesn't have sci-fi for it to be a
gaping holes plot well it sounds a lot
high like people go crazy about Minor
historical errors like they didn't wear
that kind of pin on that uniform the
1880s or whatever it is this is a
horrible movie it's like yeah sci-fi if
people say people in sci-fi are so picky
it's like not compared to almost any
other work of of fiction the standards
are way higher for historical fiction
amen the K2 desperate hey Isaac any
thoughts on possible using magnetic
monopools for mass energy conversion
reactors like in Orion's arm which is
supposedly better than antimatter and
black holes as a power source
ah yeah I don't really know how you get
anything that's really better than
anti-metal black holes or power source
um but I mean magnetic model poles are
great for making material out of in
theory because at that point in time
which are actually you've got to get
much much stronger than even the new
kill Force so you could have something
that's thinner than an atom and a whole
string of them that could hold an entire
planet suspended over a black hole for
instance That's How Strong the orders
are met you go up on something like
magnetic monopoles
um but uh I'd have to double check and
see what the entry on that is I haven't
looked at Brian's arm in a few months
and as always usually it's one of those
things where it's like which particular
article of Interest has drawn me to the
today so I don't think it's probably
been a few years ago mag man or two to
see what's been changed on that one but
always a fun place to hang out by the
way Ryan's arms uh encyclopedia
collector that's my personal favorite so
I think we're going to get two more
questions in before the lightning round
Nick Orion says considering your prior
tangent about Star Wars are there any
good Sci-Fi series which you can
recommend reading or watching with kids
Star Wars
now we only had about the things we love
um Stargate Star Trek
um other things that don't begin with a
star in them
um Babylon five is a good one
fellascape's a good one uh for little
kids though I wouldn't know if I'd say
fall Escape
um
a good Sci-Fi for with little kids
uh I would still say Star Wars even
though at some point you've got somebody
who's like half this man board applying
the website of a cliff who also kills a
bunch of kids earlier in the movie
um maybe not the best example of good
fiction for little kids to watch
um not Event Horizon do not watch
Avengers and with your kids the movie
not not my son John show that's a great
show to listen to
uh good Sci-Fi for kids
I'm trying to think of any uh
the classic I think the disclaimer
should be you should assess based upon
the maturity level of each child and
yeah they're
ability to handle grass yeah
the early 80s when I was like five or
younger and I actually saw them when I
was at age two so yes but we all know
that you weren't really five you had
like the brain of a 12 year old so they
kept an edge all out of my bed yeah
exactly
oh yeah but um I you know obviously be
very careful your choice so we're gonna
watch your kids I found out otherwise
you might find out at one o'clock in the
morning when they're screaming and
banging on your door that it was a bad
idea
foreign
said thank you for your Super Chat
thanks for the show here's my question
you're welcome
go ahead
this is from Freedom theme thank you for
your Super Chat
how significant do you think Ceramics
are going to be as things like zero G
Manufacturing additive manufacturing and
Nano engineering become more accessible
huge
um it's it's to most of us Ceramics is
like pots and and you know things may be
like oh puts a clay uh it is huge Nano
Clays nanoparticles are going to be huge
we use them in applications you wouldn't
even tend to think of some of my
favorite knives that I use here for
cooking the house are ceramic right
um you're going to see that roll even
more and more in the future but the one
of the nice things about space is it is
one of those places where you have that
ability to manufacture things that won't
get manufactured in a gravity or high
gravity environments and Ceramics is
definitely going to be one of those
um Nano Clay is gonna be another one of
those ones or you just have such a huge
impact of being able to manufacture
things up there all right we are now
ready for the lightning round and
remember this is for 15 second or less
Quest answers we want to try 15. we want
to try to get at least four five
questions in per minute you've got five
minutes or a little less to go and we're
going to start off with a question and a
super chat from Rob Hawk are there any
sci-fi novels where the aliens are made
of photons and travel at light speed yes
although the one that comes to mind is
actually the fotino boards uh which are
made of dark matter and Steven bacto's
Rift and CV sequence
Burt Jackson
what effects would Technologies for
super soldiers have on civilians the
quick answer probably about the same I
think in that episode we said that the
best way to make super soldiers make
super citizens
um but anything that enhances your
strength intelligence reflexes that's
gonna be huge in the personal lives and
for civilians too
Ed Lippincott do you think that we will
ever practically apply any exotic forms
of matter like strange Quirk exotic or
magnetic monopoles or will they just be
kept to the Realms of labs
uh you know I hope so but my suspicion
is that probably not you think about it
if we don't know how any matter made out
of strange particles existing that we
know aware of so it probably doesn't
actually occur and might be hard to do
but it'd be cool if we did
Tommy vesque what is the best snack and
drink for SF
s coffee without going any coffee period
and then I don't know coffee with
chocolate coffee with chocolate yeah
there's so many good things out of
chocolate amen
astronomer KSP on a scale of one to ten
what's your favorite color of the
alphabet
I think I misread that no it says what's
your favorite color what's my favorite
color of the alphabet
God
my favorite color the alphabet green
okay green we're gonna go with green
did I try to remember what that is like
anesthesia or something like that where
you use you know you could start
smelling sounds of ice water can you
smell that sound it was if you have if
you have brain damage or sometimes then
you just like start smelling sounds or
scene I'm not seeing Carlos
um healing colors okay moving on to
dance five is it possible to use a 10
mile cable from a geostationary space
station to lift satellites into space
from Earth
uh a 10 mile
well that's what it said
geostationary is like 26 000 miles from
the north sofas I'm sorry I'm still
stuck on what was the actual question it
could have been what's my favorite color
of the alphabet
that's what the text said so we're
sticking with that
I'm sure there was a question out there
that that would book my brain ready
ready that one was the stump question
here's here's another one nav is no
blight if we harness the power of your
beard can we power a niker Dyson Beam
without using the Sun
possibly yes possibly there is a reason
why the mustache is gone temporarily by
the ways you'll be back soon Daniel
James hi Isaac is it possible that we
could build remotes for opening
wormholes into different realities like
in that 90s show sliders for colonizing
an extra
slidos was an interesting TV show I
eventually it ended up feeling like some
kind of crow Magnum mutant race to eight
people it was like the big bad like
season 203.
um
yeah no I I don't I don't see the
multi-force thing actually working out
but if you could there's so many more
cool things you do than run around from
different versions or almost the exact
same planet with the same history but uh
still had some good episodes
Sean Bourne do you think that Humanity
will terraform Venus and if so do you
think that plate tectonics could be an
initiated artificially
yes and yes I I don't see us really
disposing of any of the main planets I
think we'd be more likely import them
elsewhere so they'll they're the
original ones we're gonna keep them
do you think that aliens would have an
appearance reflecting the strength of
their planet
at appearance reflecting the strength of
the planet like the gravitational
strength maybe like Lance yeah it could
be I I I don't think the ground I mean
gravity is not going to vary much I
think on plants that people are natively
from so
um yeah I bet your plants can be huge on
impacting how you come out of things
you're just going to be so impacted by
that
Fate's end
oops add sorry got an ad uh while we're
waiting for that ad to clear on the
phone here it is fades in what is the
largest number naturally habit of
naturally habitable planets that you
could reasonably fit inside the habital
zone of the sun like star and another ad
um you know somebody says someone said
look you get like a thousand in there uh
before I actually did the channel
um and I just get bored and see how many
real plants you put on there I forgot a
way to put in one it was they actually
had a son that had Sons around it too
Eastern solar system clouds that one I
think I worked out to have like a
billion habitable planets around one
stall maybe it was a trillion it was
smaller than a bulge Planet but uh much
bigger than license real John Starman
our Jupiter r
s for colonization
uh you know going back the other one the
limitation was how many plants of Earth
Mash could fit into a space inside like
10 000 Au or 100 000 Au and that one did
work out to be how I say it was around a
trillion Earth masses so that was the
number what was the question again
I don't know
someone finally got a question that I
got lost because I got distracted on a
rapid tree
um yeah I'm sorry I I'm trying to find
the additional ones but I think that we
actually butted up against our time it's
officially 501. oh well oh Jupiter
Saturn's Moon's better candidates for
colonization I got the side screen that
see it came in handy for a change yeah
so there's like three models over there
and I actually take a look at them oh
did you put all set on spoons better
chance for colonization
um without the radiation issue yeah I
would say they're better than than some
of the other options out there but
Jupiter I like better than Saturn
because it sounds like got that one big
moon Titan which is easier to colonize
than those fall but I definitely say The
Galleon moons there's a whole represent
a better score as it were
um but uh you know any of those places
you're not gonna you walk around the
opening over the sky the sunshine down
you so it kind of varies uh anyway so
for those who have joined us next week
thank you for joining us we will all say
goodbye and we'll see you
um Thursday for that episode I can't
know what the episode's gonna be we'd
like to give a shout out thank you again
Maya skill for keeping us up to date on
the questions and pulling them it
definitely helps and it makes the
lightning round a lot more fun thank you
all for your questions you should
probably send him a note if you ever
want to help on the money because he's
kind of sucking himself in the moment so
thank you very much and thank you and
for joining us today and we will see you
on Thursday for episode
that I still can't know the name of it's
probably on the screen
oh small cities we'll see you on
Thursday for smart cities thank you and
we'll see you then have a great week
thank you for joining us for another
monthly live stream if we missed any of
your questions feel free to put them in
the comments on the episode and we'll
see you on Thursday but if you don't
want to wait you can check out any of
this month's recent episodes or see our
bonus content over on nebula at
go.nebula.tv Isaac Arthur as always
thanks for watching and have a great
week
