good afternoon everyone and welcome to
the sfia monthly livestream q a
we'll get started in just a moment but
go ahead and start getting your
questions in the chat window so our
moderators can start relaying those to
me as soon as we start please try to
keep the questions concise and watch
your spelling and try to be polite to
others in the chat
we usually go for about an hour so you
probably want to grab a drink and a
snack though we'll take a break about
halfway through too
with all that said welcome and let's get
started
good afternoon everyone and welcome to
our show i will put my microphone on
of course it seems to be something which
i'm putting on while isaac's putting his
microphone on i will talk i'm sarah good
afternoon
the post even here is my wife sarah uh
she is going to be answering asking on
questions today i'll be answering them
hopefully
so hopefully that's the only technical
glitch we're going to have to start the
day off with
oh we might as well get right into you
guys questions
okay well we had a question from someone
at the end of the last live stream
saying i know i'm too late for the live
stream but do you think with the
commercialization of space travel we
might be at the brink of a moon rush or
a space rush
uh i mean it's pretty good chance
overall
it really depends on exactly what you
know if we're talking a 1940 sorry 1849
style gold rush in california
i don't think so because it's not really
scenario let's just kind of go out there
and do it by yourself
and that is kind of critical to those
kind of rushes is that you only need a
couple of you know people who are
displaced or really not what you call
ultra rich can't just you know run off
that place and do that
and so i don't really see it being that
kind of uh on the other hand yeah i mean
we've been waiting 50 years for
something to really go back on the moon
take place it does feel like that's
probably going to be
a period of time we won't have to wait
again before you say yes there are real
moon bases we are settled people so
hopefully yes how's our audio
and that's a good point while we're
waiting to find that out
that
if you don't get your question into the
live stream while we're actually
answering them live don't despair leave
your question in the comments and it
might be one of our early picks for the
next live stream that is entirely
possible i pick them somewhere
arbitrarily about a month afterwards to
make cases so
all right um let's see so let me get
that adjusted so the next question is
from calvin greene he says could you
combine a black hole with a boussard ram
scope for energy plus refueling yeah i
mean in general this is one things we
talk about in like black hole ships for
instance uh
we'll get back to that question just
about you know unpause there's another
model on the side that's got the live
stream in action
and i paused it so it's not that way
yeah it has been very wildly crazily off
the side
[Laughter]
what was the question again i don't
remember
you just were like
frozen in time okay the question was
could you combine a black hole with a
boussard raham scope for energy
plus refueling
okay so
the beast ramjet or ram scoop is the
other you can grab all that hydrogens
out in space and turn into fusion fuel
and the better version of that is the uh
the black hole because uh
at best fusion gonna get you like one
percent of the energy converted and
that's assuming you can actually do
proton proton fusion which is really
hard uh compared to like uh you know
deuterium or deuterium tritium um black
holes though they don't care what is the
mass goes in and and you know the uh the
berm strong irradiation comes out the
other end you know it's also about 40
times more energetic if done right so
if you can make a little micro black
hole and have everything chaired in the
throat of that then yes it absolutely
does um work better
fix your mic again that was it okay
i've switched over using a lapel mic
this week because
it
hopefully would have resulted in better
sound oh let's try it again if not still
no better sound
just rubbing on the suit or something
and maybe loosen the jack you know i got
even better well you know i probably
shouldn't switch my switch mics on the
on the attic so okay
all right
welcome once again to our live stream
with this technical issues static every
time you move so okay i will hold
perfectly still like this is it possible
to hold perfectly still in outer space
no
no there's always quantum motion
it's actually an interesting question is
you think there's no friction in space
it's empty enough but uh if you're like
an object spinning around or just
passing through metal it will eventually
slow down just for interactions with
virtual particles in the foam
there we go okay
so
the next question we have is from
monster derek and he says how would a
rebellion in space work
how do you think a rebellion could
happen on space stations if it happened
on a space station cautiously
uh i mean if we're talking about the big
o'neill solos can be the same there as
anywhere else except you got the problem
that there's many of these and someone
could theoretically decide to deal with
the rebellion by opening the air up and
just you know out of the bottle but on a
space station you depart anytime
somebody fires a gun or anything like a
small space station you might go ahead
and open that bottle too so
uh
large amounts of violence are not your
friend in space and yet it's so much
easier to do things like that in space
so it is good to be calm-headed
definitely
um
just a moment here trying to find really
new questions
okay i guess the audio is now good
that's that's a good sign there i'm not
sure where the questions went sorry
um so we're getting ready to have a
thunderstorm yes
and it's going to show up just about the
time that we want to be asking questions
and we'll see how soundproof that the
room actually is it's decently decently
all right so we got some questions ready
okay so paul leaked the second says hey
isaac will you ever be doing an episode
on the different exotic materials that
may exist under the different physical
models that might
be true based on the current information
no and i'll tell you why we wouldn't do
any episode on that we don't want to met
materials for instance and we do want to
advance period at some point and we
talked about doing like a clock tech one
on that but the reason why that
particular clock tech episode never
emerged was because all those things are
so very different
and there's so many different
hypothetical ones trying to squeeze them
all together and explain the various
different physics they operate under
struck me as just kind of a mess you
know we don't really feel like that
a lot of shows a lot of presentations of
the higher technologies that are the
edge of good science tend to kind of
just shove the information out and say
here's this cool idea i'm gone we kind
of aim to do it a little bit more in
depth and explain it and that means at
the same time
we can't really do a quick survey
episode that's going to give you 10
different materials up under 10
different physical laws that might exist
because
it just turned you a bit of a mess like
why magmat or material based off
magnetic monopoles would be very strong
compared to say neutronium or something
like smart matter these are all very
different ideas and i don't think they
mess well into one episode
mr mellon monkey says hey isaac recent
headlines stated a lot of satellite near
misses are caused by spacex's star link
could that really be the start of the
kessler syndrome
i don't think so but it's it's always
kind of hard to rule on these things a
key thing to keep in mind is we do keep
putting more stuff in space we also get
hit by two million pounds of space
garbage every year and not all garbage
naturally coin
solar garbage so don't assume that just
because the plants getting a few more
satellites each way maybe you know a few
hundred pounds each that kind of thing
that uh the occasional another ball
coming out these things represents a big
existential threat
i would generally tend to guess we would
probably need to get
you know at least a few million tons of
material in space before we actually
have to have an active system
or else otherwise it might just be a lot
of damage popping up but you're gonna
get damaged anyway but uh we'll get into
that zone but uh right now i would say
not yet what kind of stuff is space
garbage
mostly rocks uh silicate carbon iron
things like that like if somebody
smashed a mountain and dumped on the
planet
random axes flying through space yeah
random yeah just random garbage it's
just not got both see garbage implies is
artificially made this is just junk from
like other asteroids colliding our
satellites join that junk occasionally
but not that much they're very small
in total
dominic aspdin thank you for your super
chat he says that will you keep
uploading narration only versions of
episodes to soundcloud for us weirdos
that listen to you while we sleep yes
yeah that is actually the main reason
why we do that the reason there's an
audio only version of the show period is
because a lot some people asked for an
audio only one they could listen to on
their phone
uh while they're going to work they
wouldn't like be able to download it
they couldn't get the band before it and
then the immediate follow-up that was
please don't put music on these because
often it's distracting when i'm trying
to sleep
i fall asleep every night to audiobooks
i don't want to have a musical score
come you know i i love the musicians we
use of these these episodes but i didn't
want to hear them at three o'clock in
the morning when i'm not it off so with
one of those ones that's like eerie in
the background and you wake up with this
stream yeah kind of getting out of
proportion if we were going to cut down
i mean we do two episodes it takes like
an extra two minutes to do the narration
only version um and because i'm just
copying the file down and setting it off
but
if we were going to cut one of them out
of the only version it would be the one
that was with the music since the
absolutely well i'm leaving that too
that's fascinating
technological singularity with animal
gupta says what will the everyday life
look like in a type 3 civilization
i don't think you'd ever have a type 3
civilization in the context of anything
kind of vaguely unified unless you had
something that was amounting to fashion
like travel with the exception of
something like a birch planet you could
theoretically have a type three
civilization that or a called chef three
civilization that was a bulge plant uh
for those who don't know the context on
that we say that a civilization uses all
the energy of a planet that that planet
gets from the sun that's a k-1 and we
are a little below that right now
depending on how you want to look at it
um
and then a k2 would be all the energy of
a star which is like 10 million times
more and then oh sorry not 10 a billion
times more and then the energy of a
galaxy which is a billion times more
than that it would be a k3 civilization
and that's going to be spread all over
galaxy so if you're not fast night
travel you're not having any kind of
civilization and so just that many
different bits and pieces if you got a
hundred billion different stellar
systems each of which themselves are k2s
you know with a billion billion times
the population of one person you're not
going to have a unified civilization to
answer what civilization is like for
them i don't think probably digital oh
that's my guess
tom
says if tidal heating generates usable
energy just from orbits and if you could
get a stable enough orbit could this
give you a free energy source
now one more time
if
tidal heating generates usable energy
just from orbits and if you could get a
stable enough orbit could this give you
a free energy source no free lunches um
tidal energy every time the moon and the
earth wrap around each other like that
and cause the earth you know the planet
goes
which it does like a big ball of jello
um you know the planet shifts in size a
lot so is the moon uh the moon when it
was doing this before it started getting
breaked by that that's why it's got the
same face towards us earth is slowing
down uh every time there's a tide the
day gets a little bit longer right
every single time
every time the earth and the moon wrap
around each other the day gets a little
bit longer here that's how that works
out so it's not really free energy
that's how you can generate it and title
generators you can generate energy off
that well enough
israel's bro says isaac do you think the
inability of humanity to unite and the
tendency to splinter off into groups
will guarantee human survival in the
universe once humanity becomes a space
fairing civilization
um
i know i'd say things like guarantee
survival or something like that because
it's quite saying let's say
i've got i'm not going to use the roman
empire i've got an old empire that a lot
of colonies um and then that empire gets
trashed because someone blows up the
capital or planet whatever um and all
those little disparate civilizations
that have cylinder in common they barely
notice each other but etymologically
they can trace they are used the same
ward for you know blowing up capital or
planet are those really the same
civilizations or species or whatever um
real things that originate from earth
still be around in a galaxy if we spread
out the stars
i'd have a hard time thinking it would
wipe us out of the civilization at that
point but we are inventive so maybe
johnny wing says hey isaac i love your
show i just wanted to ask i saw an
episode his episode suggestion of
standing out in a civilization of
trillions won the recent poll
could i help write the script
it's already been recorded
let's see when is the actual date for
that coming out uh is that one of the
ones that's actually coming out in
august i will check when that is coming
out but if you have thoughts or
suggestions it's already occurring we
have a follow-up episode right we always
have the option for follow-up episodes
of that matter that is exactly what we
do the extended editions for and uh
usually we have i mean i mostly do the
extended editions on the ones that
curiosity stream is sponsoring but
there's nothing that requires me to do
them that way
and uh yeah i can also switch around
which ones are coming out when but
uh stay on a trillion civilization
trillions coming out october 7th
and it was
written recorded
in july i believe into july oh a month
ago
yes
we don't we don't put a lot of time on
those i'm afraid sorry
yes
my husband likes to do things very far
in advance preparation preparedness
and
implementation implementation
i couldn't think of any more peace
anyway
ian cudmore says what do you think this
impulse drive that's being talked about
now is it comparable to the em drive and
its dubious claims
every new drive that runs on a system
very different than that we already use
now should be treated online the lines
are probably not working until it's been
proven but it should always be assumed
to be probably not working we don't want
to get in the habit of just nay saying
them all the time too you know this is a
big difference between skepticism and
pessimism in the sciences it's not like
well i don't believe in leprechauns
right
not because i think the idea is horrible
and stupid any things they might be real
as a horrible stupid person but because
i haven't seen any reasonable evidence
for them i think it'd be kind of cool if
they were leprechauns you know um when
these new drives come out
it is with some of them obviously kind
of hard not to tittle at some of the
ideas like that
violates every piece of rules about
newtonian mechanics ever that's just not
going to work but you always want to
stay
positive and optimistic on new ones to
come out the evidence though you do need
to prove these things that i really do
wish
the media popular media would stop
publishing every new wild scientific
theory hypothesis drive that hasn't been
peer reviewed yet without trying to
suppress it let it go through the normal
channel to see if there's something
there because it just results in the
population thinking hey seems like this
stuff gets disproven all the time i
can't even think of a physical law has
been disproven the last century but
people get the impression happens like
daily
because of things like that so i don't
know what the question was anymore oh
the impulse drive um it's got it needs
to be looked into we'll leave it there
super chat from mark zimmerman thank you
mark for your donation he says hey isaac
a fan since 2018. let's get an honest
opinion from the man himself would you
build a kaplana or stanford tourist
habitat first and why
okay so the plot
kabhana i always mispronounced that one
the kapana one's design and the stanford
design are both things you could
reasonably do
without going into full like o'neill
island three design um i
like the compound design a lot i think
it's more modernized it's
either one is potentially doable but
that would be the one i go with possibly
because it's got such a wonderful
animation
but yes that's probably what i do
james mays how significant is the
testing out of the national ignition
facility
that would be a fusion question i'm
assuming here
we are fusions concerned there's always
this kind of uh you get kind of the two
camps going on of this is the next big
breakthrough that's going to get us
fusion real soon real cheap and uh this
will never work out thing and that kind
of goes better i'll say a moment ago
about skepticism
um
people tend to fall into this d though
this is like very soon or never at all
uh they're making a lot of good progress
with that i don't expect that to result
in a commercial fusion reactor anytime
soon
uh i tend to fall into takamak or big
plasma tourist category is the before
one but
i'll take whatever works
they're making a lot of progress there
that's
but it's just
continuing progress
not like a huge new benchmark in my
opinion
do dunal says do you think we'll ever
have a spacecraft that can travel at
speed so close to the speed of light
that it could go essentially anywhere in
the galaxy at least in a near instant
well that would be a relatively question
um
if you go fast enough close enough to
the speed of light from your perspective
you can get anywhere in the universe
very quickly because the distance is
well for you the distance between you
and other things will shrink down
whereas for those observing you your
time slows down so much that you're
moving quickly to everybody else it's
still taking you a million years to get
from here to the andromeda galaxy but
from your perspective it might only take
a second uh however
there are some really hard limits on
actually trying to get that much energy
on something uh i'll give you an example
we're pushing something with a laser
sail and we're shoving it with a really
powerful laser we should be able to get
arbitrarily high speeds than in terms of
its game how how much time is carved
down it's still getting basically a
speed of light but gamma the levens
factor says by what amount time is
slowed down effectively how quick you're
going in terms of the speed of light for
your perspective to get to place faster
so a gamma 100 would get you to some
place basically 100 light years away in
one year of year 100 that time
um once you tell a little bit over 100
you start getting a place where if we
were pushing with that laser sail for
instance you'd be running into
resistance not just from interstellar
dust particles but from the cosmic
microwave background radiation which has
been now blue shifted
up from tiny weak microwaves to now
they're back up to
the basically human thermal body
temperature
is 100 times more powerful and then to
add on to that you're hitting them much
more often from your perspective so
um
you begin getting a big powerful drag
force that has been overcome at a
certain point you'd be shifted so high
that cosmic microwave background
radiation and other ambient radiation
dust would be ripping your ship apart
faster you could pour energy into it
even with a very powerful laser eve with
a super material so i would say at that
point in time you know you you're maxed
out i don't think you could even really
get a spaceship up to you know a gam of
100 maybe a probe or something like that
but not one that was actually meant to
travel long distances so in that regard
and that's just creating your time down
by effectively uh you know a warping
factor of 100 um
nothing that will get you from one place
to another in like a second but
something that might make it feel like
it was uh you know a few months to cross
the galaxy i couldn't rule out but i
think that would be really pressing it
that would be
a ship that was one very slim nose cone
being shoved by some unbelievable
neo-impossible jet engine of some sort
running on unknown physics that might as
well be ftl at that point probably
something just let you get from one
place to another what felt like a
decade for you but it actually means
century in the outside time maybe about
the matter so no star trek travel yet oh
yeah no no
jake of germany says do you have any
plans for a solar punk themed
technologies video solar punk being
sustainable technologically friendly
advanced and decentralized in terms of
control and power
um
i mean i guess
you got well
i remember when cyberpunk was relatively
new because there's something in the
march from blade runner and near
stevenson books um but uh and sorry will
gibson's books them too um probably more
so neuromancer
um
and you got the steampunk genre and now
the soul punk genre i'm not i tend to
think of these almost more as visual
fashions and looks more than specific
technologies
but uh
could you have an episode that was
basically about
decentralized solar yes we could do that
uh it's kind of the opposite zone of
arcologies a lot of times we talk about
ecologies it's the great big building
you're running on a nuclear power plant
or a fusion reactor um whereas just as
easy you know ecology could be something
like my cabin in the woods with solar
panels on top a big battery blow and
like a basement full of hydroponics and
3d printers right
that's very realistically possible as a
future i don't know what that would
visually look like and that's pretty
much all there is to saying the
technology of that is you know that's
where you have your own power generation
and then
to taste you maybe get rid of rhodes in
favor of quadcopters and things like
that it's hard to say but might be
interesting to explore at some point
james shep shepardgirl says you've
talked about black holes or planets etc
that are so large that the event horizon
extends past where it exerts one g of
gravity can you expand on or even do an
episode about that
uh well for clarification we've never
discussed one where the the planet would
be so big that it was actually inside
the event horizon uh just on general
principle other than passing references
i won't talk about what goes on inside
the event holes of uh event horizons of
black holes because we don't know we
just have some mathematical constructs
and i don't like to add into the
certainty of the
area we know nothing about that happens
a lot of times people discuss it um
a birch planet is usually what people
think about for that and for
clarification
many many years ago paul bush the guy
who gave us the orbital ring and a few
other wonderful ideas
said hey we could build a gigantic shell
board not only around like a planet with
orbital rings that was the idea is you
could build an artificial orbital ring
based planet shell around something like
saturn he said we could make this so big
or go out a black hole even or a star
hey we could do it around a galactic
core if we want to be like the biggest
staff well you could do several layers
and you'd have differences in how fast
time is running between them because of
the you know the high general
relativistic time dilation of that black
hole
and he didn't name it anything and we
mentioned it uh in our very first
episode make structures in space for
about 30 seconds to the very end
and uh it's almost never discussed
outside that so when i got around
discussing in the mega earth's episode i
just said anything that was a shell
board that was size of a galactic center
mass black hole or bigger
was a birch planet so i thought we'd
named that in honor of him and i'm glad
to say that name is stuck because he is
under he is less well known to the
public than he should be uh he sees no
argue with us
um
and
they can get to be as big as about the
entire galactic mass in theory the
reason why there's that limitation is if
you're aiming to have one g at the
surface layer there's only so big you
can get with the black hole and still
have one g at the surface there and not
be
inside the vectorizer and that works out
to be about a half a light year of
memory in a radius so that's the upper
end i should note that the down end is
usually what we're pointing to is just a
galactic mass planting core mass which
would be a thousandth of that
um but uh
what was the question again
i really understand i
did you ever do an episode on that yes
the very first episode well no that was
like in passing mega earth see the
episode make a discussion of that topic
so you're not planning to do another
episode on that because you've already
covered that topic and maybe i would
love to do another episode on that but
we haven't really got the visual assets
to make it worth it so i think the only
ones who have a couple that jeremy jaws
we've done in tokyo um but a lot of
times our discussions of megastructure
episodes i'll just limit to what we have
for animations talking about something
without
an image to show people gets boring
quickly and confusing i think so
tom saba says would air breaking on
reentry with starship be improved if its
cross section was oval rather than
circular
um
i'm not a good enough aerospace engineer
type to be able to tell you on the
aerodynamics of that one uh a couple of
editors off top my head olive repsome or
keith bloggest would be able to answer
that question i don't know if you don't
know hanging out with the chat today um
trying to get who we have here is really
good on rockets who could answer that
better
uh just in general though re-entry-wise
remember you're not really trying to
maximize your eodrack
you can get yourself in some trouble
with the spaceship maximizing how you
rent the pizza pretty easy but uh
i don't know i can't give you an answer
that one in fact
isaac burdow says what do you think the
main impacts of starlink and other
satellite constellations will be
hopefully uh you'll be able to get
internet anywhere even down a valley and
i think that's a mistake folks sometimes
make these days is it's not that we're
trying to get uh you know the north pole
because we really need to have in and
out of north pole is that we're in a lot
of areas that are much more up and down
and curvy and we have some around here
like a river valley or a park there's no
internet there because it's so hard to
get a tower
that you have to build one pretty much
on top of that specific hill
um
things like starling give us the option
to have people be able to
be almost anywhere that we have
civilization but still get reception and
that's awesome
um and
i don't think that we need to worry
about these causing much the way of
kessler syndrome incidents yet but i
think it's very important that we start
putting place rules about how you
deorbit them and maintain them track
them make sure they're still existing
and not lost
i think we have time for a couple more
questions before we get to the break
medievalist says let's pretend that the
ufos we have seen blurry images of are
actually alien ships
what does that tell us about these
aliens for example that they don't have
cloaking technology against the human
eye yeah um i've done this with jimmy uh
jimmy church he runs the show fade to
black uh he had asked me one time
you know putting aside your skepticism
for the moment and he's got to be a
cylinder they'd seen in space
uh or they're floating there they said
what would that be if what we know what
from our observations of view from that
i said well it'd have to be a cylinder
about 4 000 kilometers wide hanging in
space and geostationary orbit to meet
that uh text choice oh okay so but i
said i'll be a mckendree cylinder but if
anyone's visiting with one of those
uh they'd
we would see that i think it's not only
very subtle but um
the blowy ones we see there's not really
i mean the blowiness is not
indicative much of the fact that outside
of hollywood you almost never actually
get a clear picture of anything that's
moving
um you know satellite images are blurry
um most of them have a correcting filter
that tends to in some ways make them be
more blurry or outlined um
you get these blurry images
and i think we did look at that one
episode we looked at the the three navy
ones the three navy ufos what it would
indicate and what it usually indicated
is they would have to have some kind of
technology that broke the laws of
thermodynamics specifically which is
possible i mean any civilization worth
assaults could be putting all its effort
into breaking those laws it's just i
don't think they can do it but if they
could then you might see ships like that
in some specs it's just then asked why
they have
such vast amounts of overwhelmingly
useful power available to them and make
ditsy little saucers
one more alien related question it's
like putting a jet engine in like what
the old like little go-kart
the game crasher the master gamer would
the physical proof of faster than light
be possible and practical to be a good
candidate or reason for there being no
alien life or at least no intelligent
life no fashion night travel only ever
exacerbates the fermi paradox with a
couple of exceptions one of which we
kind of talked about in the edge of the
universe episode with hyperspace um if
you're going in constantly colonizing
young or universal
and another one would be like a dune
style phony space one which we have an
episode on 49th space actually the next
episode i'm writing um you know then
you'll jump to whatever the most
ideal planet is for you so you might
never even go near plants that want your
specific preferred one like ours for
instance
unless earth was ideal for you um
the
thing about ftl is one other exception
if ftl works but it does indeed have the
time causality issues we have it might
be that the reason why it works but we
never see aliens is because every time
someone flips their drive on they
obliterate their civilization
which is
actually a very realistic possibility
for stuff like that if you're playing on
something who by its very nature is
supposed to mess around with time
there is a good possibility that there's
some sort of correcting mechanism that
prevents that and just deletes out that
you ever did that you know so
um that's what the nokia self
consistency principle i think we talked
about that in our time travel episode
one of the two time travel episodes same
way um
otherwise though if you can travel
faster in light it only makes everything
with the foamy paradox ten thousand
times worse because then you gotta
explain not why you haven't overcome
civilizations 100 light years away from
you traveling at like a tenth of speed
of light you got to explain why you can
hold for the billion other stars in you
know the galaxy that could get here in a
couple of weeks or the ones from the
entire supercluster of a million more
galaxies that could get here and
colonize and so it just it doesn't work
well for that all right we'll go ahead
and head to break and we'll be on for
about four minutes then we'll get back
to more your questions
so we'll be on break for a few minutes
and it's a great time to get a drink and
a snack or get some more questions into
our moderators for the second half of
the show
if we don't get a chance to get to your
question today though you can still
leave in the comments section and i'll
try to get to it as time permits there
was one from last month though that i
thought we should tackle now on the
break
steven sullivan asked how fast would the
muamua-like object need to be moving for
us to include that was not naturally
created
now if you did not know about amumua it
is an asteroid force detected in the
fall of 2017 and it was already on its
way out of the solar system at the time
it's presumed to be interstellar and
origin and the reason for this is simply
its speed it reached a maximum of 88
kilometers per second related to the sun
as compared to mercury at 48 kilometers
per second 35 for venus 30 for earth and
a mere 5 for neptune and pluto the
further an object is from the sun the
less gravity experiences and the slower
it needs to go to orbit and vice versa
you have to move faster as you see to
orbit closer things coming in from
outside our solar system would speed up
as they fall sunward same as something
falling on earth would but unless they
are going beneath a certain speed at a
certain distance they're not going to
enter orbit but just bend a bit and the
faster you're going the less your
trajectory will be bent around a massive
body so we spotted this asteroid which
is also fairly weirdly shaped even by
asteroid standards and saw its velocity
and position we concluded it could not
be from our solar system but instead
must have come in from interstellar
space at high speed though not very high
speed it would have been traveling at
roughly 26 kms roughly between earth and
mars speeds around the sun
again it would have sped up as it
entered the system and fell sunward
stuff gets ejected from solar systems by
natural perturbations all the time and
that would not be an implausible speed
for one
now a lot of folks thought it might be
an alien ship for that reason we never
discussed it much on the show because i
didn't really see any basis for that
claim other than being weird shaped
which is true but asteroids are rarely
even vaguely spherical and often weird
now steven's question is how fast would
such an object need to be going to make
us think it might be a ship or probe not
some natural object that's tricky
because you're asking what makes you
suspicious but the big flag fall
probably not natural would be anything
over 1500 kilometers per second or just
under half a percent of light speed as
we have seen vogue ejected stars heading
out of the galaxy at those sorts of
speeds
it also starts hitting the speed zone
where we can think of folks saying that
it's fast enough for a probe or ship
keep in mind the muammar moving at 26
kms is going to be a bit less than one
percent of one percent of light speed it
needs almost 12 000 years to cover a
light year or over 50 000 to reach the
nearest star if we're headed that way
which it is not
we can contemplate a civilization
sending out ultra slow probes akin to
voyager but remember voyager was for
observing all planets and our discussion
with visiting other solar systems is
auto hyperbole
realistically so is something like
arthur c clark's rama spaceship a big
alien or near cylinder moving at similar
speeds from his classic rendezvous with
ram and novel that a moon mural got
compared to even though it's far tinier
incidentally
now if you're a channel regular you
already know there's a ton of ways to
make a ship leave this solo system much
faster than that including ones we
already have the ability to do and
realistically those are going to be much
easier to implement and get a ship to at
least one percent of light speed than
trying to build some device that still
works 100 000 years later so that's the
magic number for steven's question about
one percent of light speed or higher is
probably not natural anything doing a
tenth of that speed is probably worth
eyeballing if it gets into our solar
system
one last note though if an alien was
setting the probe in to be subtle then
they should send it in faster but then
decelerate its more mundane speeds
before it got in system and setting it
anywhere near the sun is a mistake since
not only does that make it closer to us
and easier to see but more brightly lit
by the sun and easier to see
alright i hope that answers steven's
question now let's get back to more of
your questions
and we're back
now we're gonna try to speed up uh
questions a little bit on the second
half i hadn't realized quite what a
backlog
yes
gervius arsenault says what do you think
of the presentation of the tesla bot
uh i think that as usual
musk is very good at presentation
we'll see how use what turns out to be
but i mean
he makes a lot of good progress i'm
going to speed up answering questions so
we'll do it i liked it
okay fabio urclart says what do you
think about the possibility that a
sophisticated city i'm sorry
sophisticated civilization simply goes
to sleep because they have an augmented
reality
goes to sleep because they have an
augmented reality i'm probably not quite
getting what you mean by that context
usually we talk about a civilization
going to sleep uh we're talking about a
virtual reality we mean they've uh
basically taken their whole civilization
and put it into some kind of digital
layer augmented reality uh is where
you're walking around on your glasses or
your eyeball it's painting things like
uh the photo id of the person you're
just talking to so you got their
biography there or you look at a flower
and it brings out the wiki link for it
or you're watching tv out the corner of
your eye i wouldn't really see how that
would put a civilization to sleep you
might want to rephrase that when you put
it back in the questions
okay
ian crone thank you for your super chat
and he says what do you think the future
holds for health and fitness
healthier and federal civilizations um i
mean the one thing is we've we often say
we're in much more shape than we were a
century ago and that is true
uh at the same time we live a lot longer
and we die a lot less from other stuff
so we haven't really gotten good at
keeping ourselves fit
and uh
in the modern era even though we're all
the better medical technology because we
don't really do as much physical labor
and we got food and plenty and very
tasty food um and
i've had lunch yet
but um let's see uh
i think that you will start to finally
get that point where like
we constantly make fun of diet programs
that rely on this miracle fat burning
pill and we should for the most part but
those will at some point in time
become a reality
but
they won't become a reality on an
infomercial at midnight they'll become a
reality on every news channel telling
you that's been peer reviewed
checklist says i liked your episode on
uplifting what animal or race do you
think would be uplifted do you think it
would be useful to uplift an animal
species when we begin to colonize space
yeah sure john i talked about that um
we did the uplifting episode as a two
portal with john michael gautier and uh
i
he always liked the the aquatic
suggestions and so i we tend to fixate
the episodes on those because you know a
monkey type race should theoretically be
able to build technology too but marine
species would not no no use of fire no
metals no you know pottery um the one
that i think would be most likely to
uplift ourselves
would probably be cats and dogs a little
bit
i don't think there's anything that will
actually want to have a fully human
intelligence though that would be a lot
harder to engineer than i think people
tend to assume anyway because there's a
lot a lot more architecture right but at
the same time do you really want the cat
or dog likes to sit around watching
while you're naked and getting dressed
to suddenly be human level intelligent
probably not
that's disturbing
okay thank you household adventures for
your super chat if oil and hydrocarbons
are from dead biological matter how sure
are we that aliens would have access to
cheap energy such as oil and gas
well
one of the oldest fuels mankind has is
ethanol as you say because it's just
booze
i mean it's
bad booze it's very cheaply distilled
booze but it's still booze
they would have access to that
methane
is way more common than oil or coal
and they likely have access to that too
it's it's all over the place uh if they
don't have the you know the naturally
occurring fossil fuels they would have
access to biofuels like wood
like ethanol
and they might just you know we invented
the first solar panels
uh for given value of solar panels about
the same time colors were just starting
to take off and we started noticing that
a little bit earlier have we gotten
semiconductors 50 years for the call we
might have done a completely different
way too so i don't ever really think of
that as a big hold up and but i do think
you'd have that if you're assuming you
know old planets then you should have a
lot of stuff lying around unless it was
really tectonically active in which i
mean really tectonically active in which
case
i don't know that you ever had much of a
civilization emerge anyway because that
tends to imply you know civilization is
the art of living in cities or to build
one of those of the roof keeps falling
down from north korea on time but it's
possible
q9073
what are your thoughts on the recent
media hype following the latest test
results from the national ignition
facility besides breaking even what
would you consider a turning point in
fusion energy
um
well it's always how do we divide
breaking even are we including all the
energy we poured into it you know just
in general just put it into the reaction
um
to me the turning point isn't even when
it i mean
the tony points when you have when you
can sell for less than a reactor that
you build out of your like uranium or
less than a solar panel that does as
much but i'd say even it actually allows
you to sustainably produce
more than a megawatt of power
uh
for
a week in a row that's where i'd start
saying now you have a practical new
energy source that we can start to
upscale and use commercially or at least
start thinking about doing that way
okay valencian met says have you
considered doing a specific episode on
current day
cryogenics alcor etc maybe talk to some
of the guys who work there about the
current state of the technology yeah
actually i feel like i just can't
unintentionally snub the guys that have
um
the the work of the
they're doing very impressive work on
fusion not to go on the new question but
uh again we're talking about actually
using as a real power source there are
certain benchmarks that needs to head
from a practical level too that's what
we're referring to not the walk-in which
is impressive um
cryonics-wise uh i think i actually did
send an email once after alcohol and
they never replied i had been contacted
by somebody who was doing research on
freezing heads
and i thought i'd do an episode on it
but it's never quite materialized um
i'm really sure that's also going to be
doing
modern
cryonic stuff because really it comes
down to
freezing brains with minimum damage our
usual interest is what's the application
of this technology
and we don't usually dig into
the intricacies of how well this works
like we don't sit down and explain
exactly how a nuclear reactor works we
explain the basic concepts of how
uranium fusion cycle works and what some
of the major you know hurdles and
safeguards are for freezing we've
already discussed those in our clients
episode it's how you keep the
crystallization the cells from happening
while you freeze it and then how you
thought out and revivify it and it's
that crystallization thing had we not
damaged it this will be the hard one
melmann medical said thank you for your
super chat he says you said it's
unlikely that there is a k2 or 3
civilization anywhere nearby what about
life that exists on time or dimensional
scales that we merely can't perceive
well technically a k2 or k3 civilization
is is based on how many watts of power
it has access to so if it's operating
really really fast it might be uh you
know a k3 because it burns through
energy really quick um but it's not that
much energy just very use fast use of it
uh same for like a one that operates
really slowly
um they could not be k2 even while they
were actually at k3 as well just because
they use the energy so slowly uh you
know i saw those civilizations talk
about like civilizations at the end of
time with black hole foaming those
aren't even k1 civilization they're like
k
0.1 or something like even smaller
although they still could encompass you
know galaxies with a civilization
um
but uh that's that's kind of a critical
concept here because we say there's no
k2 or q3 visible
very important to that is the fact that
we have to astronomically detect these
things by how much power they're
emitting
um
so
that's a character should be on there
but time scale wise um your time scale
should be based on principally two
things
how fast your thinking occurs which
should be it you know it might not be at
chemical speeds it might be at optical
speeds which is over a million times
faster and then your own physical scale
too
i don't think you could make life
all that much smaller than we do now
maybe in order of magnitude you know
smaller and certain brains but that'd be
about it
so i don't think those skills we
wouldn't see
and i'm not sure that they still
wouldn't be visible either because in
some ways
how visible a civilization is is how
much energy they're using and how much
energy using is how much energy they can
use which is say all of it they should
always want to be using as much as they
can
and that would seem like that would be
equally visible then
alex sobi says so what do you think
about dreams what do they mean how do
they work
will we be able to use them in any way
through science
um dreams can obviously indicate a lot
of things psychologically but uh
i
you know i think it's it's
uh ornomancy i believe it's called our
dream magic has a i'm probably not
pronouncing that right o n e i r o man c
m e and c y
um the study of dreams if i remember
that right uh has been a very popular
thing
even for psychology and has
suddenly been stayed up by folks like
ewing or food
and
i don't think that there's all that much
to dreams
they are
replays while your brain is kind of on
and i think that's one of the things
people forget we talk about like your
brain when you you only use 15 of your
brain that's not true you use the whole
brain and when you're asleep you still
use your whole brain that's why you can
still kind of think semi-rationally in
them at times your brain is building up
some construct off of various random
signals and replays of the day or so
forth what do they mean
probably not that much but uh i don't
think they're going to get a lot that
will learn from that other than maybe to
help people figure out how to learn
while they're asleep or how to be less
stressed out by
reviewing their day less stress or
fashion while sleep something like that
hopefully what we'll learn how to do is
figure out how not to sleep anymore
because while i enjoy it
you know it's like through your life
that you're losing to sleep
and if you could come and be refreshed
constantly without need for sleep
you could just not need to sleep and
still be physically energetic mentally
energetic without that pause that would
be a nice addition to the day but
your mileage may vary on that one
yasha says how many years before we
replace most non-creative jobs with
automations on a large scale
um yeah i just got done giving this talk
to lincoln labs
and we have the episode coming up on
that
um
human machine teaming on september 9th
and one of the points we make in there
is that from day one
uh people have thought of computers and
robots looking at blue collar jobs and
from day one the first shot they got rid
of was a white collar job which was say
computers uh that was a profession
before we had devices that did that they
are the first ones eliminated by that
um you know the harvard computers a
group of women who helped calculate a
lot of stuff we needed at the time is
actually a very fascinating story
um but that's the job fashion is just
gone
white collar jobs have often been the
force to get lost i wouldn't be
surprised if creative jobs were
theoretically something ai got rid of
too you also have to ask yourself why do
i actually want an artificial human
level intelligence and i can't think of
any reason you'd ever need a task done
by that level of intelligence that
wasn't creative otherwise you know so
many tests could be simplified to
a few neurons at 100 million so
um
what will most people do for a job after
we have things highly automated what
we're doing all the stuff that's a
creative job i don't think that's today
we'll ever see
not because we can't make a machine to
do a job but because i don't think that
that
really encompasses what you want with ai
i think a lot of times what you want
with human level ohio ai is something
that can actually
do something a human couldn't think of
because we don't have a shortage of
humans we don't need
more ai to replace humans there's eight
billion of them need something to
preoccupy themselves you know so
super chat from andrew hartley thank you
andrew what do you most wish to see in
future works of science fiction that can
better reflect our current best
understanding of the universe
you know i think everyone tends to
assume and i i talked to a lot of sci-fi
about a lot of new ones who you know
asked me for advice and i think they're
almost all coming in to assume that i'm
going to tell them you need more
scientific realism what i usually tell
people is you need to have a good solid
plot and don't worry too much about the
scientific realism getting in the way of
that plot uh
try to have all you know be well
researched focus on a couple areas to
bring people new scientific knowledge
that's the one thing i always want to
see in sci-fi walks is
whether it's really super important to
the plot or not find some piece of
science that's not as well known to
people
and tell them it tell them it accurately
and clearly it doesn't have to be
you know the base of the plot you can
wave it aside for your ftl drive things
like that but
give people some new scientific
knowledge when you've read the book
and that was what i'd like to see a lot
on these books other than that though
there are some really overused tropes um
plants that are one ecosystem with one
little village on them that's got to
stop if you want to do that just build
up have have that on your cylinder on a
planet instead or something like that so
that's probably the one that bothers me
the most
joshua murphy says if someone managed to
create a functioning wormhole would you
have to change your faster than light
videos no
i have a video animal they're going to
want history at that point aren't they
what
we have we have the wormhole videos uh
we've done two of them i believe haven't
we and i'll just tell people go see
those
oh yeah
my longest thing i think on ftl is same
with thermodynamics um i don't think you
have to find any way to break them but
i'm happy to be proved wrong it's about
saying about skepticism there's an
industry being a skeptic and being
cynical or pessimistic
i'm skeptical on these things i would
love to be proven wrong about it but i
don't expect to be but
right i don't think i'd have to change
anything because i know i told people
this is absolutely impossible and
something that shouldn't be allowed to
exist i've we've gone into some of the
ways it could happen would i have to
release a new video on it
yes but i'd be one of many dozens of
people probably releasing one at that
point in time because there's some folks
who actually focus on the science coming
out today
and we try to look at the stuff that's
elsewhere so we have to stop doing more
videos
matthew cunningham which is better space
colonization or planetary colonization
while remaining interconnected with each
other like different countries trading
with each other
um but i i think in the context you're
probably just being like asteroid
habitats and and um rotating habitats
like oh neo cylinders or kapana et
cetera um i i would say that it's it's
not an either or but you definitely have
like a dyson swarm people picture of
dyson spheres they want things to be
crashed into each other all the time and
say well if those neo cylinders no
they'd still be farther apart like one
volume the size of earth would have one
of those cylinders in it and that's it
so it's very empty and and swarm but at
the same time
you're a lot closer together you have
hundreds of other ones that were
actually within real life speaking
distance of you on the phone that might
always be like a one second night time
uh whereas with planetary colonization
you never are going to be able to have
more than like
at best a short four minute lag time on
each way when mars is in conjunction or
venus in conjunction
now uh if you want to have a
civilization hold itself together tons
of space orbitals is the way to go the
kev man 11 says can you do an episode on
the standardizing of technology between
different races
alien races and ourselves basically how
we technologically interconnect similar
to the opening of valerian
well could i do an episode on that
that's a good question i have no idea
um you should send his
advance ideas in advance
i don't know
uh i can't answer that because i'd have
to think on that a little bit more it
does actually sound like an interesting
idea though but send your ideas in
advance to isaac.a dot arthur gmail.com
isaac.although.com
gmail.com
that's all that hard to find there
find your find your solutions here okay
moving on
just don't give them my phone
[Laughter]
i don't remember your phone number i
have to look it up well that's good
anyway
scott rotherham can you talk about an
ultimate system where a maximum amount
of dyson swarms orbit a massive black
hole and how likely this would be
what was the question again
something about dyson swarms can you
talk you can always talk
about ultimate
systems where a maximum amount of dyson
swarms orbit a massive black hole and
how likely this would be um i've never
seen one that was on the ultimate solar
system it was a cool idea but i'm
thinking it sounds like
could be better than that um
sometime circle like 2010 or so when i
was particularly bored i tried to work
on how you make a dyson swarm of dyson
swarms and at some point in time this
emotion is something called a red
globular swarm but um
you could absolutely do solar systems
around sources and we did a uh seo
episode making suns that would be the
one i think we discussed that in
and how close you could pack them but
basically it's a heat loss issue the
more you want to pack in your density is
going to fall off uh inversely right so
if you wanna have you know ten times as
many people in area um you know
what anyway you can take ten thousand
people or ten times of me stars or i say
a hundred times many stars but a hundred
times me star wars produces a a volume
that'll be as bright 10 times further
away so you've got 100 times many stars
packed into a valium of you know stars
over each other for maximum heat
dispersion you could have 100 times many
people living in that
but
it would have to be 10 times wider to
accomplish the heat if it's only 10
times wider though it would have a
thousand times or 10 cubed volume so
your density population drops a lot and
that kind of goes with that effect
all right we have a question from alan
lambert thoughts about the trope that
we're 50 years away from fusion being
practical and we have been for about 75
years 20 years right here uh i'm pretty
sure i read it he said i think he said
50. oh yeah i just i've been used to
hearing you as 20.
uh fusion the technology of the future
and always will be or fusion the
technology tomorrow and it always will
be um
you know i think this is the
um
big thing with that is
i think i mentioned this before we went
from
nuclear fission to nuclear bomb in like
10 years to practical generators right
and then we went to fusion bomb a
thermonuclear device in about 10 more
years and so i was thinking well you
know in 10 or 20 years tops are going to
have commercial fusion and so they said
you know infusion technology then that's
when that started up nobody really
thought it would be all that easy after
that it was just kind of hope it's been
delayed and here's the big thing you
have to build a gigantic and expensive
facility to collect new data each time
and
uh you gotta get that funded analyzed go
talk to congress or the eu and say can
we please have another 10 billion
dollars build a new wonder because we
need to check this data point right here
and okay and then 10 years later you get
to finally start building in 10 years
out there it's done building a flip
thing on the other side
that's the delay on fusion right that's
fundamentally what it comes down to is
each new piece of information
we have to get a new building made
basically to check it and that's just
slowing things down a lot more than it
did with fission
merv johnson thank you again for your
super chat he says you're my best excuse
to procrastinate writing a sci-fi novel
this month i simply can't go any further
before you talk about stealth spaceships
um you'll enjoy the episode then i have
to make the video for that it's the next
thing on my task list after recording
was it episode 315
um
i don't know if anybody else ever
noticed the episode numbering on these
things uh 307a stealth spaceships um
that's coming out
it's probably up on the screen that's
why it knows what the episode so i put
them on the screen during the live
stream
yeah excuse me i'm having a
slow low coffee day okay um yes that
will be a fun episode then we're going
to do the one on heidi entire
civilizations after that
um what was the question or is that just
more saying hi
hi morph
it's almost five o'clock we'll take a
couple more questions and i'll go rest
my brain which is fairly overheated it
does look a little overheated um
the game crasher the master gamer could
you create a true dyson sphere via
active support and tech you need to
create a birch planet
absolutely um yes you could so what you
do is you create the big dyson sphere
and then you
put people on and the inside of it they
all fall into the sun um
that sounds horrible
so it's you could do on the outside
right um
you have basically a big solar collector
on the inside uh and then everybody
lives on the outside with like light
towers for instance so it's just a big
big shell around the plant the sun that
everybody lives on the problem with a
big dyson sphere is that the only
gravity at that point is the sun sucking
you into it that's why you do things
like ring wards and stuff like that
um and there's no way around that unless
you have artificial gravity otherwise
everyone just follows into the sun from
the inside for the kind of hollow earth
setup and that's actually an interesting
aspect of calculus is that if you uh
build a sphere the hollow sphere uh
inside it's not that the center of
there's no gravity like israel earth
inside a hollow sphere
or any spherical shell there is no
gravity any point inside it from that
sphere if there's something inside it
deeper down that has gravity like the
core of the earth then there's that
gravity point you into it in this case
the sun it sucks right down into it so
but you could build that there dyson
sphere that makes solids feel yes
dustin adams says do you think the new
dune movie will be any good i hope so
um yeah i just recently done a review of
the david lynch 1984 film i'm doing
where with the reels of justice
uh and i was the defense they they tried
films there i lost barely but it's a
hard film to defend doing 1984 i just
like it anyway uh i did like the dune
mini series from sci-fi like the one
they did the children of dune was even
better
um i'm keeping my fingers crossed that
the new film will be good
and uh if it isn't then
movie adaptations are hard and one thing
i will say on that is every
producer has to put a little bit of a
change on it just to get scrammed in
there i don't know how you even get it i
think they probably do two films for it
but it's a long book and it doesn't
really do well for compression um that's
a big problem with producing in the
first place and then the other aspect
that's better as a tv show i'd say uh
you gotta adapt a little bit to the
modern cultural interest visually and
then you've also got to
try not to piss off the fans which is
almost always a losing game
logo3 slug thank you for your super chat
and he says is there some kind of limit
in regards for gravitational well of a
planet where there would be an
impossible first civilization to get
into space i don't think so um i mean a
neutron star right like uh
oh my god i forgot this rob went forward
he did a book called dragon's egg which
has the civilization on the surface of
neutral install uh you're not getting
off of one of those the chemical engines
obviously but that you're not living on
one of those with chemical life forms um
a planet eight times more massive than
earth might have double the gravity at
surface right maybe if it's got the same
density right
um you could still get off of that
planet with a chemical rocket it's just
a little bit harder and you're having a
lot less payload on the other end but
that still leaves a lot of other options
available to you too and that just means
that maybe instead of launching your
first rockets in 1950s
you launched them instead in 1990s
or 2090s right
you can eventually do that
so matthew rand says what type of
current tech would you use to protect a
spaceship in our solar system from
radiation and space junk
what type of current tech would you use
to protect a spaceship in our solar
system from radiation and space junk
or more
just oh my dead dumb vom matter is
always your easiest way to do that uh i
see a side question from jamie russell
about the gravity thing um
look up gaussian shell and gravity no
center jamie that will probably be the
answer you want or if anybody else is
trying to get why there's no gravity
inside there it is a math-based
explanation it's not going to do well to
go into more detail today
um but basically thicker armor on
spaceships that is always going to be
your
go-to unless you get something really
high-tech you just have to
spend energy pushing along at that point
and david van der hayden says have you
ever considered writing a website faq or
series on common mistakes that fictional
writers make maybe a compendium of
common misconceptions people have for
world building as a resource for sci-fi
writers well write a book on why like
about seven years ago i was getting
frustrated with uh because i was on a
forum with a lot of sci-fi authors a
tendency to repeat the same kind of
basic mistakes over and over again and i
said to myself you know i need to like
make a note of these i can just send
them to them nothing they wanted that
and then i had said you know what i can
put together a little slideshow on that
for them why did i read this off and
that got us
a channel so that's basically with that
we got a channel on that so
anyone's always welcome to take these
and put them in a wiki uh orion's always
a good place tv tropes a good one see
any of the other tropes that have to do
with the heading of
sci-fi lighters have no sense of scale
so you could just say if you are a
budding sci-fi writer listen to more of
isaac's shows absolutely yeah i thought
right
and then remember what matters most is a
coherent plot
don't don't abandon a good story off
because one of the things we see in the
show's like that's impossible
if you want to have aliens invading from
another solar system
uh try to do a little bit better than
they want all water right but don't
don't just trash the idea because you've
watched too many of all 40 paradox
episodes and no longer believe aliens
might exist right but don't have them
coming to steal our water that's so
stupid
do your time for one more question are
we
the the game crasher master gamer do we
have a way of ranking civilizations
without including its power output like
the kardashev scale
you know seven years ago
i've never brought it back out again but
i had a scale in that first episode
megastructures in space where we had it
on and one for basically what the
population the various megastructures
would be
and
not long after that because i had so
many different ideas that might have
worked better i realized this never
works
someone will eventually put one together
but it's it's almost tax and alcohol at
that point and things like how many
people are in the college of uh two of
civilization or what's the technology
level of someone who's k3
i don't think it works out very well
especially we don't even know what the
technologies for them would be so
fundamentally it's it's just it never
works out as a good system that he's got
skills for civilization i think
uh it's irritating but true at least i
think it's irritating i suspect it's
true
well it looks like we've got a lot of
questions to start off next month's live
stream with thank you everybody for your
questions
and
hopefully
we won't have mic problems the next time
and we can get a few more in yeah i
understand church even so having those
but and i will try to get some of the
questions later well probably a few days
from now because we have a huge event to
plan for on tuesday but again thanks for
joining us and we will see you
on thursday have a great week
so that will wrap us up for the day i
want to thank everyone for joining us
and again if we didn't get your question
feel free to post as a comment below and
i'll try to get to it this evening
also you can continue the conversation
at any of the forums on facebook reddit
discord or website
