welcome to our dissemble monthly
livestream go ahead and start getting
questions in the chat window for all
Madhuri goes now so we can get right to
them and as usual please try to keep
those pretty clear and legible to give
them an easier time relaying them to me
also as usual we won't be able to get to
every question today so if yours doesn't
get coupled feel free to post it into
the comments on the video after we're
done and I'll swing back by over the
next day or so D at those and so on and
in case I forget doing the show let me
wish everyone a Happy New Year
good afternoon everyone and welcome to
our live stream will get start with
questions in just a moment so go ahead
and start putting those in the chat
window now we probably go a little bit
shorter today that no more just cuz I
got a bit of a head cold and I might
struggle over to clogged up to talk so
go ahead and start with questions well
the first ones we had was in the coming
war between the ingenuity superhumans
and kill oh lawd official intelligences
who would I put my money on and the
interesting about that because we've had
come for and like cyborgs and you know
generically in Japan there's only so
much you can probably do with biology
especially keeping to basically human or
you know earth based biology voice as a
machine you know popular lose that
machine I think so
cyborgs would generally tend to win
although I would note that probably if
you're a cyborg you don't mind getting
genetic enhancements to so you're
probably getting a double dish they are
okay alpha bravo tech asks what you need
the world population will look like in
the year 3000 and why well quadrupled in
the last century but let's say we'd only
double in the next centuries and and
after that that'd be 10 doublings and
that would be 210 1,024 so theoretically
the population if it's growing a fairly
reasonable rates a little bit more
modestly than last century would be
about seven trillion and would you
actually have an episode coming up on
that what if the earth had our trillion
people on it or how could the earth have
a trillion people on it and we'll talk
about that they are but to be honest I
would not expect the population be quite
that high on on this planet
time but that depends so much on what
kind of technology you have for instance
our population growth rates start to dip
in the latter part of 20th know a 24th
century the growth rate in especially in
developed countries because we had
access to both control technology and
because people will generally starting
careers later men and women like so even
though most folks would still like to
have a family they tend to start a bit
later and say that's a technology that
affects the population rate probably a
lot more than a major cultural thing in
fact the coach will often follow the
technology if we had technologies that
increase the period that you're fertile
for and in fact they actually have been
doing a lot of advances that women in
the last decade sunny that changes you
can start a career at age 40 and still
have a full family and if you got good
life extension technology with that you
might look like you're twenty stone when
your century old in a case like that I
would imagine you have quite a
population boom there would probably
easier to get people to agree to wait if
there was actually out like a resource
limitation so you know you know you can
have kids eventually so if the wall
needs some time to build up
infrastructure then I think people I'd
be a bit more relaxed about waiting
especially if we had better board
control technology to so it's kind of
hard to guess on population numbers it
could you could throw a Dyson Sphere up
I do 4080 with relatively low growth
rates and that's a billion times of corn
population a thousand Joshua morass
postal question what's your reading list
looking like for 2020 well very high my
reading list is actually a heavens River
by Tennessee Taylor and I don't know
when that scheduled to come out but I
got to be more the Alpha vetoes on it so
there was a lot of fun
Tennessee Taylor if you didn't know
friend of mine who does the Bob of all
series we are legion and there's a very
great book say especially if you're a
big sci-fi fan because there's so many
callbacks and references to popular
science fiction there I think Brandon
Sanderson's play another book Paseo that
I was in the cosmic series I'm hoping to
read he's my favorite fantasy Arthur and
you know I keep my fingers crossed we
see something else my Austria when it
was this year but also some novels in
the seizure of Taylor series for 40k I'm
hoping get a chance to read it so but as
that's always our mo oh and I want
ketchup is es lewis' a bit he has a
sci-fi trilogy I'm ready yet but my
fiancee given to me as a Christmas gift
I can't be with the rest of the series
car but the fourth book is how do the
silent planets and I'm looking forward
to reading that next week or two ah
let's see
Oh heads up hi Cody and hi hydraulic
press two shows I'm sure you guys know
hydraulic press and Cody's labs there
apparently the audience day thanks for
joining us guys
juicy asks what is the smallest amount
of time for a repeatable event in our
universe that we can associate a value
to huh probably a plank second which for
say how many trillions were trillionth
of a trillionth of a trillionth of a
second is I think it's a billionth of a
trillionth of a trillionth of a
trillionth of a second very tiny amount
of time though don't quote me on that
one I'm a one of them is a Planck
distance like negative 35 meters only
the planck seconds like negative 45
seconds it's kind of hard to say what
what you can really measure that kind of
minimum time space though but the amount
of time is the same amount that light
will couple at that distance of a Planck
distance in so in one plank second light
a photon would cover one Planck length
of ton of of distance so those are kind
of our minimal measurements and if
you've seen the episode we did things
which will never exist or that will
never exist
we did talk about a little bit thing
about these minimum things and how they
are from a practical standpoint probably
not all that relevant to our civil
action unity measurements the amazing
skeptic gas is a biological singularity
feasible as in a biological analog to a
technological singularity I really
couldn't see how that wouldn't end up
happy I wouldn't rule it out completely
but it's not really the way that would
tend to walk in the Darwinian sense
certainly now as to there's a really
hazy line between what we mean by
biological versus technological
again that's getting a whole natural
artificial thing and you know if you've
got you can build a biological computer
she could make a brain that was just a
machine that ran Windows that's possible
on the same hands you should
theoretically be able to make a computer
that man a human brain and I don't know
which of those is the biological
computer more biological than the or
more but what we mean by natural than a
human mind uploaded to a computer and so
I would say not as the questions
presented
there's no analogy for that but also
that that's a very hazy line to begin
with that artificial most natural thing
is almost never gonna be a good
definition we going by for how we how we
choose to look and classify things
Johnny when au asks how feasible is
zero-point energy it was proven that
particles and their antimatter countour
can spontaneously come into existence
but how can use this phenomena to
generate useful energy it's quite
probable that you probably cannot do so
at all um he leaves a very short quantum
events theoretically
the one way you can do it using the
virtual particle example of Hawking
radiation is to use Hawking radiation
coming out from a black hole there you
have these virtual particle payos
conceptually being produced on either
side of the event horizon or very close
to the event horizon so that one gets
sucked down when the other one is not
and that becomes real energy at that
point in time causing a loss of matter
to the black hole and so that's not
exactly what most people mean by
zero-point energy in the sense I mean
this infinite power supply but that is a
direct matter to energy convulsion and
that's about as best as you ever gonna
get even that's 100% efficient as well
or more like 99% cuz there's other
potent other product was involved alpha
Bravo check ass theoretically on a
planet so that is tidally locked to its
stall could an advanced civilization
continuously move dirt from one side of
the plants the other to move the planet
closer or further away from its stall no
if you're inside a spaceship or a space
station and you throw yourself at the
wall you will make that wall get shoved
and away from you thus you will seem to
a constant motion but you're gonna fly
backwards when you bounce off it and
then bouncing the wall behind you and
push it right back yeah if you want to
move something via propulsion be a movie
mass round
you have to actually shoot it out away
from the planet so alternatively if you
wanted to to move the planet closer for
the way from its tall you could serve
some kind of huge active support system
to pick up a chunk of the planet and
like move it to its moon if you remember
the colonizing Pluto episode where we
had a tidally locked plant to Italian a
locked moon pluto and charon oh like
that we have that big long space
elevator connecting two sides them to
each other in a case like that and it
would seem almost insane to try to do
this you could move a huge chunk of man
off down that elevator from one to the
other
and cause you know I limited about
emotional on that distance that doesn't
seem like the best way to be trying to
change the amount of light you get into
a tightly locked plan that would seem so
much easier to just do with a meal
alright so next question Leigh Tesla do
you think we will be uplift the animals
cats dogs dolphins - hi-oh intelligence
I think you probably can argument that
we already have in our more classic way
you know we've been genetically
engineering plants since before recorded
history cereal crop records so they've
gotten much more productive same for
cows I think you get like 25 gallons of
milk out of a modern choisi cow a day
that's not you know that's not how they
were originally we assume um don't quote
me on that figure for milk production oh
let's see but in that sort of way we
have already been doing cats and dogs
probably for higher intelligence um
and I think that you will definitely
have a market for smaller cats or dogs
whether I don't you want them human
smoke though you know it's one of the
nice things about pets is that they are
not people they don't actually have to
worry about them talking back to your
wanting to change things around that
much
thank you more Johnson if we could
produce negative mass what would the
implications for society and technology
be the biggest one would be that that
opens the door to doing both the
Alcubierre warp drive as well as your
classic wormhole you cannot do either
those without negative mass although you
could all really do it with negative
energy although again mass
you know equals mc-squared masses energy
and vice versa mmm so if you have the
one you would have the other presumably
so if we could get negative mass and
we've never gotten a particle of this in
lab then you should be able to do
something like a warp drive or I work
for and there would be the two most
obvious things but on top of that it
would probably open up the idea of doing
something like hammer space if you seen
the old Looney Tunes cartoons where they
pour an anvil out of thin air
that's hammer little pocket dimensions
akin to the TARDIS from Doctor Who so a
closet that you could open up the door
to and they either had a wormhole
connected to a warehouse
so very nice closet mm or one way it
just was a much bigger pocket of space
thank you excuse me by the way but
stuffed up today Alexander I asked what
would be the economic incentive to
colonize he Mouse well there isn't any
uh-huh then same as going to the moon
there would be a lot of side effects you
know we have benefited from going the
moon
you know I not just but things like the
invention of tank if we made trips to
the mall as we learned so much more
about space travel about how to keeps
you know closed small closed systems in
place in terms of ecology that I suspect
it would pay off in dividends but Mo's
doesn't have anything oath has except
for less gravity and there are so many
other things in the solar system that
have a delta V less than the surface of
Mars back to earth or more with orbit
you know going to the moon is a better
choice than most because the movement
has so much less gravity and it's so
much closer to home saying the asteroid
belt is much more appealing and even for
terraforming as we saw in winter on
Venus it's it's awliya bleee zo and
better to be colonizing venus scorching
that place than it is then is try new
Mars
now in terms of why we would want to go
there there are tons of reasons not
everything has to be economic based and
then you could probably make it
economically viable even profitable but
it isn't the most appealing place to go
doesn't mean gonna get colonized we
clearly want to do that at some point in
time it's about fixation we have
and when you are colonizing you know you
stopped a four tire river delta before
you start colonizing on the other places
forced around it but those places do
eventually get colonized Simon Peterson
asks how long does it take you to
resource the information and put in a
video form you know probably about half
the episodes on this channel begin as a
brainstorm where we just talk about it
amongst the crew for a couple hours and
come up with ideas and thoughts and
sometimes we'll link out of course some
of you remember seen others I just start
writing because it's interesting topic I
know a lot about so in that context you
know a few decades of research another
context it can be as little as now or
sometimes a couple weeks it just varies
on the topic I tend to write about
topics already know pretty well and
there's always something new in the
episodes in terms of thought and the
more just while I'm writing but
typically speaking there's not a very
long research Pio you know a lot of
these episodes Joshua Moore says nice
tie by the way thank you this is my PI
time fond of it
ego brisk and ass please explain quantum
entanglement and its effects on FTL
communication we did an episode on that
way back in the FTL series which because
one of our early episodes I don't
usually recommend the folks because the
the video and audio quality is much
lower but we do go through that in
detail they are short form quantum
entanglement cannot be used to flirt
your communication there may be some
other things similar that we might
somehow use for FTL communication but no
aspect of quantum entanglement allows or
has ever allowed or haven't thought to
men allow FTL communication so we came
up with that at some point in time in
sci-fi just caught on it's not real yeah
you cannot use quantum entanglement
under any known theory to produce a fast
like communication the analogy I use is
it allows you to know what the state of
body in cyclic particles is that you're
not observing if I write your note that
says I've written two notes on each of
these notes there is a one or a zero
if yours contains a 1 the other contains
0 if yours contains a 0 the other
contains a 1 and I mail that off and I
mail one of those I'm a or two you know
Beetlejuice and I know to another one
20,000 light-years away at the center of
the galaxy and there's now 20,000
light-years between the two of those and
when somebody opens that up they say oh
look I got a 1 and the only element has
a zero on it and you know that instantly
even though it's 20,000 light-years away
that's not FTL communication though and
that's what quantum entanglement does
you know what that other particle is but
it's random you can't encode a message
into that just that one bit of
information up or down and which one is
is random the case of quantum with a
letter we know it's a 1 or Z and we sent
it when you're dealing with the quantum
case the poster you wrote that note
which 1 or 0 doesn't know which one he
sent to each person only the person over
here knows that it was a 1 and the
others are 0 or vice versa
no one has covered the way to send
information faster light with quantum
entanglement that may change one day but
not at this time
Cthulhu medallion asks for your videos
where you still do other videos that
didn't win Leto or were the topics that
will be explored when we do the polls I
usually end up doing the runner-up
because they usually now is the evil row
up usually one of the one of us up at
least though usually there's a topic or
two that really grabs my attention
and I decide I want to do that topic but
even the number one is always guaranteed
to win like sometimes I look at the who
won that poll and say I don't think I
could do that video hasn't come yet but
there were a few I was tempted and I'm
sure one day it will happen but the best
way to get a poll that topic on there
that did not win a poll is to just
resubmit it and see if it runs metal
like right now we harvest a little for
half the topics from our Facebook group
we'll do a poll Vail and the reason I
like to do that is there's a good sized
audience there and they can add their
own ideas to that poor can't do that on
YouTube and the only we could do it on
patreon is to have a thread we're just
ads or topics in I pull those out
manually and stick them in a poll the
downside though is that those earliest
topics people add tend to cluster up in
the top 5 they actually get shown on the
screen without hitting the seawall
button and so usually out of that force
10 topics people suggest you there's 80
on the poor at least two or three of
them will be from those first ten topics
and usually all five
Thank You Church Nexus have you heard
about the civil ship novel it's really
good from I can't see who that's written
by SH Jukka I've actually never heard of
that no I have to look it up now but
coolest cats thank you very much
hi from California on my cellphone love
you Isaac although and love you all the
fans and that's from coolest cats who I
remember from previously having send us
some funds thank you very much
victim onion asks where do you think
spacefaring civilizations would affine
their borders example edge of the solar
system line in space Casey me systems
planet orbits etc and that's going to
depend an awful lot on Canada nation of
the economy in those systems I think if
you actually had we you know something
approaching an actual interstellar
government that was quoting multiple
systems in a fairly fairly non Lewis way
something we actually qualifies a
government rather like a loose League of
folks who have trade treaties then they
probably would define those borders as
the whole system but I suspect that you
wouldn't even see single solar system
governments outside of early colonial
days remember a fully developed system
one that's actually got stuff in the
Oort cloud or the Kuiper belt or place
like that to be able to say hey this
cell territoy and a big precedent for
territories always are you actually
occupy at the Old West failure to agree
infirmary sauce was well you for me on
it but the idea for colonization is you
can't claim the shores if you're not
actively using it or your fashion so the
only way you're gonna be using up an
entire solar system to be a claimant as
your territory is either because there's
just very few people there yet or
because you're actually already using it
all which is implying you're closing on
being a cutter chef to civilization and
that's gonna be a billion billion people
in general or more you know and you know
a very lightly populated one that was
more like what we think of the
population density set up from Solaria
in the caves of steel Elijah Bailey
serious buyers a gassmann which a very
good read by the way where they had like
20,000 people on a planet and I'm like a
million robots even a setup like that
you still talk about a million billion
people
or more and probably you say like 10
billion billion people trying to imagine
that as a single unified government with
no I mean out of the given walk out very
well I think it most you have something
a UN set up where it's it's other
governments they're loosely aligned for
defense so I don't think you'd have to
me interstellar borders like that just
because I don't think you have very many
unified systems agreeing but just long
about that entirely it's an opinion but
trying to have a government of you know
a billion billion people where you need
a you know Senate the size of a city
just to have one person representing a
trillion people as their congressman or
senator that seems a very if you set up
Alexander put it I'm gonna mess up that
last name point out a keV yes how can
you vote in a tidally locked planet it's
a little tricky to actually get yeah
there's car I think it'd be a little bit
of what you might call friction on it
and you know when you first start
tilting an object around it takes a
little bit effort effort to get it going
but once she starts spitting his same as
changing the angular momentum on any
other object you need be doing it fast
enough that it's not gonna drain that
away and if it's tightly locked it's
tightly locked for a reason it probably
got its momentum sucked away over the
course of several million years or less
maybe a billion tops so you need to be
adding momentum faster than it was going
to drain away in that set up that said
if you plan to spend that thing up
anything like a few thousand or even a
million years odds are you you won't
have a problem with that and you just
adding angular momentum I would say
probably the easiest way would you put
something like a gigantic windmill
around the planet with giant Neos you
could bounce a laser alpha and just kind
of spin it that way but there's a number
of ways you could do it you also do a
gravity assist by being something else
like a moon into it let's talk about
prepping asks what our next filter what
so next photo how should we prepare I'm
assuming that's a reference to the Fermi
paradox and we they we have the filters
the things that you have to jump through
in order to become a interstellar
civilization and the late photos as we
discussed in that episode
last month all those that are still
ahead of us and it's a to give me an
answer the phony paradox solution
has to end in a civilization that we can
see which means needs to be interstellar
and big otherwise it could be you know
halfway across the galaxy just don't
never see them because they weren't
expanding so you have to be able to stay
alive they have to be able to actually
get out in space and colonize and they
have to want to be able to do that and
the stayin alive thing is obviously
always right on the first step we could
wipe ourselves out tomorrow for instance
but it remains a problem until you
actually interstellar anyway so in a way
the next big filter really is to how to
actually colonize other planets and how
to actually send a spaceship on a
40-year voyage to another solar system
or a 400 year voyage how long it takes
we got time for a couple more questions
before we go to the break Capezio de
todo I asked could you do a video on
medical science futurism like about the
use of graphene etc you know the thing
is I'm not a doctor and I'm not a
biologist we do sometimes cover those
topics here but I do tend not to focus
on them too much because it's again it's
not my wheelhouse we do have it episode
coming up on DNA manipulation of living
beans that I just finished recording a
few days ago that will come out in early
March I think and that will be talking
about some of that but for the most part
stick to our areas and I'm not a doctor
or a biologist rashidi 10 ask does Venus
have any mineral resources oh yeah
it's sophist leo is Nassim a source and
has some extreme jelled to it in general
but by and large the planets in the
solar system all have the same basic
makeup so all of them have mineral
resources much like orthos one said the
upper crust is gonna vary a good deal
obviously Venus has to have that set up
based on having a very hot surface area
but it should have a very similar
mineralization in many areas all right
we're gonna go ahead and go to a quick
break or see in a few minutes so we're
going to take a quick break so everyone
myself included can grab a drink and a
snack and we'll do a few updates and
announcements while we're taking this
pause it's also a great chance to get
some questions in for the second half of
all show today
first up you've probably noticed we've
had some extra episodes of late mostly
in our alien civilization series
in a few curious I'm plenty to try to
make sure we have at least five episodes
each month from this point on plus our
live stream as opposed to our usual four
month or five a month if it happens to
have five Thursdays in it in general
that extra episode or episodes will be
coming out forced on nebula our
streaming service as an early release
then come out on YouTube and our other
locations like SoundCloud and iTunes a
couple months later most of our content
our nebula will be Oliva Lisa's but we
also have some nebula exclusives such
our new coexistence with alien series
which are not intended to be broadcast
on YouTube for the foreseeable future
seem as our audio only content that's
exclusive to SoundCloud and iTunes our
regular Thursday episodes will of course
continue to premiere on YouTube the
bonus episodes from olio the sheer war
normally done on short notice if the
mood took me and I had some free time
and the entire nebula project is
essentially an experiment though one
doing very well and we had a surgeon
episode production to help that out and
to make sure there was some content made
just for it so folks didn't feel like it
was just for Olli releases at the same
time it was important to me that none
that came at the expense of quantity or
quality of our regular weekly show and
it took me a few months of using it to
figure out how best to do that at least
for now
speaking of quantity and quality I want
to take a quick moment to thank our
editing and graphics volunteers on the
show those editors have been
instrumental in permitting me to
increase episode outputs and in my
opinion quality has improved a lot
thanks to them - and video quality even
more so thanks to the folks that
volunteer time animating for the show we
mostly use stock footage but many of
things we discuss have few quality
images or animations showing them and
often none at all and there's many
topics we haven't been able to do
episodes for it just because I felt they
needed visuals but none existed and some
of those have gotten done the last
couple of years because of those
animators volunteering their time and
they don't get thanked enough especially
as analytics show only about half the
audience sticks around for the credit
more at the end of the episodes if
you're interested in volunteering your
time incidentally and have some
experience with graphics and animation
I'm always grateful for help and
especially with
and I occasionally get message by so we
will take a break for ya I actually
played the vibrate there so we'll have
an extra break in the pumping about 20
minutes see if we make it all out after
all all right there's a link inside the
software I use for this where to collect
the videos where I click to go to the
break stop here I forgot to update that
one this month okay where do we leave
off alexander pada Yatra have asked when
will we get a practical fusion reactor
for power generation 20 years from now
you know the problem with fusion
technology isn't that it's always the
technology of 20 years from now and
always will be but rather that there
were some early optimistic guesses when
we first figured out the fission it took
us very little time to go from oh that's
how this box to generating power with it
and so we first got the h-bomb walking
and figure out fusion we thought it was
gonna be same thing another generation
so for was in mainline use so yeah and
some announcements and 20 years we have
fusion and then there were a couple of
I'd say maybe slightly reckless
pronunciations by this or that
individual in the time that followed but
after that initial realization that was
far more complicated no one's been out
there saying any minute now in a
responsible fashion representing the
consensus of physicists I would say
though that if you asked most physicists
today well I think most of us still
hedge their bets with her I don't know
one of these days but I think a lot of
them would not react to skeptically to
20 years I'd say that I do not think
that we would actually have it in 20
years though that somebody's a really
big paradigm shift because critically it
takes a long time to build the test
reactor so and that's one of the biggest
things slowing us down we build one of
these things they a multi-billion dollar
project we've run some experiments on it
we collect some data and then we have to
spend five or six years going through
that data designing a new experimental
reactor building that at we get funding
and that's what takes all the time you
know it can take a generation just to do
the next step not because the next step
is super hard but because building the
device for it again funny for it is
super hard Tim Oh burn ass is
beetlejuice going supernova if not what
you think is
happening we even never actually gotten
c a.style close enough to us in a long
and protracted sense to be able to see
what the what the real surface surface
looks like when it's getting ready to go
so we don't know it should be one that
does go supernova if I remember the mass
right but at least was something go Nova
but we're sorry I wouldn't necessary
Nova um but success something Whitehorse
- it could just be regular fluctuations
with that it could be observational it
could be an Elizabeth go supernova and
it's no threat to us instantly Bo juice
is far too far away to do anything to us
it'll be quite a sight to see though
Belshazzar asked what you think of
co-stars television video doesn't seem
like a good idea
I've memorized they did talk about some
things we discussed they are in terms of
Chicano thrust oh and I was very glad to
see that keen discuss more because I
think prior to that video kind of got
skyhooks when they didn't look at that
not too long back the idea really had
been in sort of mainstream thoughts and
so I'm very glad to see that movie on
there because it's a cool idea obviously
we didn't have so not some years back I
can't believe the one they come up with
was but ironically was one we'd uh that
got a paper done about the same time we
did the fleet of stars video
captain caption thrust or I cannot
remember I'm afraid but that was cold
but that look like a very interesting
design I mean a chance to actually sit
down so yeah that would fail to just you
know doing the ones we suggest like most
all live team it's a very intensive
process but the problem with a Chicano
thruster is that it produces a very slow
Delta V one thing I do remember the
video that didn't seem quite right
though was and it's something that comes
a lot of times with with Chicago
Fausto's or other ways of moving stall
as I say if a starless about to go
supernova you can move your own star
away from that no I mean you can do this
obviously but you've got a region of
maybe 100 light-years around it's all
going supernova of systems don't
threaten that can contain ten thousand
inhabited systems
alternately when you bring your Chicano
to us thought the fastest callistos
around them very big stars because they
produce far more lights per unit of mass
than like a wrench warm yellow dwarf
does so the fastest way to move on one
of the stars is to move the big star
and that way you only have to move one
so if you have a threat of a supernova
you don't move your planet away from it
you move the song that's gonna go
supernova away because it's gonna be
able to accelerate out the area much
faster and it's removing it from play
for not just your system but hundreds
and thousands of others
so my toe my toe point there of course
is just that you want to move the stall
that's dangerous forced although I think
in a case like that if you're trying to
move it you instead try to stall lift it
out instead to lighten the mass load so
that was born in slower into it just did
not go supernova one second
Kevin Seto asks are there any ways we
can meet the laws of thermodynamics
during the end of time I'll be a spoiler
one so we have an episode coming up how
to postpone the heats after the universe
I believe that's an early or mid
February so we will look at that they
are and I will save that for that
thank you brother malachi any
suggestions for people that want to do
fiction you know RPG or fanfic official
fiction in the battle check universe
here's one ahold of science fiction
genres with military and political
themes I was a very big fan of the
Macworld video game for Super Nintendo
and I think I played up to Mecca boyo 3
and of course I was a very big fan of
the series of novels that they had for
that and I have to admit I'm very funny
was I know if I'd actually described it
as hard sci-fi is to a space opera store
has quite a few hand waves in they are
but I would say as to how to actually
write light fixture
you might fanfiction for any series but
I don't know how you'd actually go about
it's obviously copyrighted material I do
not know how they find authors for those
shared or extended universes but
probably write one of those fellows and
I think the only one who's come to mind
right now is Michael Stackpole I don't
levites for anymore
but he'd be speed presumably no pick one
to the authors who allow for send him a
note and ask them how do you how do you
submit entries to line a book would be
my best guess and I asked inviting
things lon those lines for fiction
that's meant to be hard or like that
meant to be more that space off but with
realism kind of we see in the no heat
voiced by David Weber for instance
Sanderson's laws of magic
Bandon Samson's laws of magic apply just
as well to to science fiction concepts
to super technology should not be
introduced casually you really think
about the consequences of some new super
technology and you shouldn't be thinking
as an advantage always try be looking
for limitations you rights the
limitations of this new ability not the
not the cool abilities otherwise you can
told you and do sex Malkin I on that
tends to ruin books
thank you again coolest cats artificial
intelligence the next step in our
evolution or forever Terminator one
public opinion I don't see that new
Terminator movie yet I know that I
didn't even know when it came out till I
was looking at movies coming out into
seeing the theater and it apparently
played out fly two months Eileen heard
about the new Terminator film public
opinion were influenced both the
development and its experience when it
becomes sentient should we start efforts
now to influence the general population
positively towards something that is a
dice task no the last thing we wanna do
where AI is concerned is do anything to
either whitewash it or turn into a
bogeyman
well we want we had this with other
technologies you know it's it's a little
bit dangerous and we try to make it
sound much safer than it is or it's a
little bit dangerous and people try to
make it the most evil thing ever and
terrifying what we always want to focus
on is realistic truth you know that's
that's the most ethical snow oil and I
think also the best one long-term AI is
very dangerous human-level AI is very
very dangerous I do not know that I
would encourage people to look in to be
researching human level artificial
intelligence at least on so we've had a
lot more experience with artificial
intelligence at a much simpler level
like insect level or very tiny mammal
and for almost everything we need it for
you can either use people after all
you've got people they need something to
do or you can use something that's
actually fairly dumb you don't actually
need to be that small to do most tasks
especially that's the only task that you
do we'll take one more question then
we'll go to our actual real break while
we take two more questions to go to that
machine a teen asks our antimatter power
plants feasible oh yeah
Thibodaux is the easiest reactor to ever
design except for the storage polish if
you want general power than antimatter
all you need to do is is take some
antibiotic in to Waddle and then just
release the steam no antimatter tones in
an OG the moment in Tasha's regular
metal and butts that's the whole problem
with storia making its another story -
there are no deposits of antimatter on
the line around that we're aware of and
then you have to store it and again it
blows up if it comes to contact with
normal metal and it blows Apple on this
coffee cup by here what made of
antimatter and I dropped it on the floor
would explode with a force efficient to
cause a cradle about the size of my
County which is the largest county in
Ohio and would probably kill everybody
inside the tri-state region so something
you stole very carefully Andras like I
asked will we have utility fogs okay a
utility fog is a term from I believe
it's originally from Hawaiian saw the
shared setting for Howard science
fiction that we occasionally reference
possibly not though it's only popular
over there a similar concept is what we
call smart now and this is tiny little
machines little nanobots they kind of
hover all around you or with you or you
came around and your utility belt
doesn't matter
and they can rapidly turn an ad device
you might want to have potentially very
complicated things very simplistic ones
what my koi a micro tech utility fog
would be akin to using the tornado
example or the tornado from
tonio to the t1000 that shape-shifting
one done by that actor whose name I
can't remember but he also played the
kono on Stargate Atlantis patrimonial
and then a another more sophisticated
version of that that was actually able
to make machines we'd actually see that
in the last tornado Mille Miglia Genesis
where they turn
spoilers john acardo into a basically a
robot made of tiny little robots and I
thought that was pretty neat more
sophisticated utility father's might be
something that was at the Neo atomic
level that could assemble into any
machine you'd want very very quickly now
if you see our Santa Claus machine
episode where we talked about some
limitations of 3d printing and
replication
I I think you utility file could be very
useful stuff but they all give me some
real limitations let's not be able to
just turn into anything in a quarter of
a second or something that so and last
question for you go to what we call
break - Adam Nicholas thank you very
much how do you envision cooperation
between such a large number of people
corporations and governments require to
build megastructures such as orbital
rings shell walls etc and terraform
planets you don't really need that much
cooperation - terraforming planets you
just need to have the resources on hand
and it's all about how long you want to
take there again using the utility for
example if you have self-advocating
machines
you don't need cooperation or you just
need to have control of that planet to
curtail forming if you bought that
planet from whoever you buy plants from
which usually implies some large
government it's cooperating
you might just drop a vial of liquid
planet on it and you know I think the
minimum we calculated was like 30 years
later because you can only do so fast
out boiling the planets you might have a
completely tail form planets don't
expect any with that fast they'll
probably still many thousands of years
and the same might apply for
construction to things like show more
she's not gonna build a shell ward see
the mega or SEPA so for details on those
unless you have access to really good
automation and orbital ring on the other
hand is a different type of cooperation
the orbital ring has to go on a a non-si
so ql but has to ring around the planet
and obviously mm-hmm and there's only a
few places you could do that way oh it
would not be over you know a bunch of
different countries if you want to
equatorial one that's gonna be a pain
you don't have to have them at the
equator though you can them an
angle as though that's a little bit more
tricky as we discussed in the Oprah
Wings episode but I would guess you know
your force one ideally is an equatorial
ring and we have satellites cool that
same height all the time so you don't
necessarily need their permission to
cross over one other country but you
probably be a good idea and they
probably wanna have a tether up to it so
you'd probably have one or two major
governments that want to be terminus is
on that and then a few others along the
way that will align that agree to doing
that and you pick your path equate Li
but that's a different type of
cooperation that's more like building a
freeway or trans now
fate line so that one is much more
Neotech though it doesn't necessarily
our mission all alright we're gonna go
to our real break to and was he
diminutive so we will take a break for a
few minutes so I can catch my breath and
grab a refill for my coffee and you may
want to grab a drink and snack yourself
as we still have a half an hour to go
it's also a great time to get some more
questions in to all moderators to relay
to me and again please try to keep those
clear and concise and also trying to
keep the comments in the chat window
polite to your fellow viewers while Wan
break a couple announcements we've got
six episodes coming up here on YouTube
in January plus an early release on
nebula for our recent poll winner can
the earth have a trillion people and
also the debut of our fourth installment
of our nebula exclusive coexistence with
alien series alliances which will wrap
that series up for now generally we'll
be using nebula for all the releases of
bonus episodes that will come to YouTube
a month or two later but I did want some
content that was just exclusive to
nebula and of course there's a ton of
other exclusive and early release
content they are from our sister
channels that teamed up with us to make
that educational streaming service you
can join that directly or get it as a
free bonus if you sign up for curiosity
stream using the link in the video
description we will generally be aiming
for five episodes every month in 2020
along with a live stream and occasional
external videos as moods take me as
opposed to just the regular four
sometimes five of so as we do on
Thursdays I've also decided I mare the
pulse shorter doing topic pause these
last few months so I expect that to be a
more regular feature we do once or twice
a month rather than more sporadically as
we did in the past YouTube doesn't have
a feature for letting viewers add topics
so we've been harvesting those off of
patreon and Facebook and taking the top
5 most popular topics to pull over here
at least the top 5 I feel more
comfortable doing for newer viewers we
stay away from topics like politics so
when those end up in the polls I bypass
them and the same does applied the Q&A
too I tend to feel everybody already has
their own opinions on such topics anyway
so won't tend to address such topics
unless I feel I can add something new
and meaningful
Andrey's
neutral on it like how one might go
about running Elector system with light
lag and what systems might tend to be
more favored within such constraints and
not which is better or more ethical as a
last note I did want to thank everyone
for their recent well wishes when Sarah
and I announced we were engaged this
month
amusingly as were both fairly private
people it was the force most Horde we
were even dating including a lot of our
friends as we've known each other for
over a decade
again we're fairly private folks so I'll
leave it at that and like myself she's a
public figure as the elected
representative to the Ohio Board of
Education for all district of around a
million folks where she so did the
voters pleasure for about seven years
now ever since foreskin elected at age
23 we'll be getting married this April
and for those who asked no I don't
expect us to miss any of the regular
Thursday episodes we switched a weekly
Thursday is four years ago and haven't
missed one since then and I don't plan
on breaking my two hundred episode
streak anytime soon of course I will be
taking off time for a honeymoon
but the episodes get made weeks in
advance so the ten or twenty minutes
needed to ale one on a given day makes
it fairly easy to keep that streak
anyway thanks again for all the well
wishes and let's get back to the show
okay and we're back it will go for about
another 15 minutes in car today victim
running asks for interstellar colonizing
fleets do you see lots of highly
specialized ships or each ship has
everything it needs to make a County in
case of ship losses um to be honest I
think you'd actually end up with a
generation governorship methods we
looked at in counting the galaxy or
galactic go indoors you probably have a
fleet that had a lot of ships in it that
you know overlapped in purpose that
could split off or you know they could
add more ships as they went on so when
they go off in different fleets I think
you seem like an automata because when
you get to a system you're gonna want to
have more than one ship you're gonna
spread out to a lot of different
asteroids and moons try to get the
resources you need at the easiest way
you can get them set up little bases
they all set up your orbital economy or
you know in a planetary economy and then
move on a tail forming a planet if
that's if that's something you plan to
do and then that that fleet they will
presumably pass for as little time as
possible and
and head off so so I do think yeah you
probably would see specialized ships but
a lot of things that way to do the same
function same as they you have
specialized cities you know they'd have
a factory for this so so forth they get
know certain things because biggest is
whilst nice to have a forward doesn't
see if you've got the kind of animation
you can replace them if you need to if
some ship goes down that has a core
feature that's backed up as it war but
you know you're gonna want to have an
individual identity in these communities
because they're gonna be walk together
for a long time so I think you know as
one big ship you'd have an individual
pulse let's shift and handle certain
things I'm gonna develop an identity and
I think those ships were too so they'll
probably tend to want to specialize I
think that's just on each others we tend
to specialize for multiple ships Bionic
panache are you going to do an episode
focusing on future personal conveyance
as vehicles like skytran
LJ powered cause etc I didn't have one
plan but it actually sounds like a
really cool idea you know it might be
fun to look and see what the future
would be for these kind of vehicles
self-driving cars too would be a nice
one to look at so oh by the way thank
you anyone for the congratulations but
yeah I think in episode on that does
sound kind of tempting if I remember it
with the live streams over it might
become an episode so we will be having a
poll again on the on the on YouTube
he'll probably about two weeks because
we're running on our patreon amor take
the runners-up from each of those
sequence of pose and put them over here
too so usually whichever one comes in
number one on either Facebook or patreon
type or they oh I just go ahead and do
that one then I take the top five or so
remaining and put them up as a poll and
we take that number one and do that one
two and if we ever find a way to take
direct suggestions from folks we on
YouTube will do that too but right now
if you wanna get involved in those we
usually at least one on a month on
Facebook and you anybody controlling
that of course it's great place for
discussion too I do like to youtube
comment section or chat like this but
nice thing about the Facebook group is
that you can post your own topics get a
lot of feedback interaction that doesn't
happen as well with the YouTube comments
so I think there's a link to that in the
description for this but if not there is
one on every video most of all social
medias actually linked on in the
description of all the videos
let's see gt+ racing asks question what
technology do you think we are likely to
master force that could lead us into
being a post-scarcity civilization
automation the better you are automating
things that we're not talking really
sophisticated AI here you know things
not much more advanced than a Roomba
things that could pick the berries off a
bush for instance or could actually do a
lot of that go and walk that right now
is not highly skilled labor but still
needs a human that would be the one I
think when you be most likely a kick-ass
enemy a post-scarcity civilization with
the caveat that you can't really be
post-scarcity unless you have a
sustainable power supply and we have
that option of the soul or not ground a
solo which would be better if we
actually had good good batteries and so
for instance we had much cheaper solar
panels and really good cheap batteries
then that could be post-scarcity right
they are but probably the other one for
power supply
obviously fusions great but I think I
put my money on power satellites and see
that episode power satellites but
probably that one because that gives us
that infant supply of power that doesn't
take up any vogue or living area plus
gives us some options for weather
control solar shading or soil
amplification Pedro cos you ask our you
know life seems livestreams cyberpunk
2077 when it comes out no I know that's
a video game or because people they ask
me about it but I I don't have a chance
to play video games too often anymore
and 10 to play somethings about ten
years out of date so I think I was
playing dawn of Warsaw storm last night
and the big one tends to be Sydney owes
railroads for like mm of a year so I'm
not as up to date as I would like to be
on video games and I always never played
them when they first come out Albert
Jackson's an ass question will people
become non-existent well that seems to
be a fairly common assumption I've
tossed around and talks of the future of
humanity I've seen tossed around and if
so what effects would have on that
society people a society was all the
rage in the only 90s in terms of things
we thought were gonna happen well these
days I think we actually produce more
paper than we used to at that time I
mean we obviously you lost stuff on
screens but a whole document he's
and someone is likely be the normal
until someone creates a a level of
Bluetooth technology that's and oh it's
equivalent and a level of small screens
similar to people we really could just
hand someone document like that and they
will just transfer their screen or you
can just have them so cheap you didn't
mind handing them that screen so until
then having something that's cheap
printout to the hand people you know and
that's probably gonna be more than norm
the other way that could end up getting
replaced is if we did have things like
virtual glasses or ions notation where
you could just blow something up on
somebody's visual window as a war then
that might see it in the paper too but
even then none and you know I don't
think it would just be a decrease as to
hold records I know people like to say
it's nice to have a printout of stuff in
case the apocalypse happens but an
optical disk like a CD or DVD drive is
actually way more resilient to timewe or
tea or fire etc than a piece of paper is
you would actually be better off tree
you know doing well those on one side on
the other side showing a blueprint of
how to create a device to read those
then store your data that way in case
you're worried about technological
losses okay
Astra Kali Singh asked question will you
do a dedicated episode on hydrogen fuel
cells I mean I would like to say no on
things like that but I'd have to to do
an episode it doesn't have to just be
technology the future it has to be
something where it really feels like
there's something fun discuss and I've
time I had hydrogen fuel cells don't
really series we have done episode and
fission for instance I think fission is
amazing on the couch and fuel cells are
amazing I haven't found anything about
those topics optically one talked about
other than like in the nuclear option we
did a video a nuclear option David in
yes which do you think we would get
forced the international cooperation for
orbital rings or the technology for
space elevators
neither um over the wings on a
sophisticated technology noise gate
cooperation to build those all that
tricky you know if it's a it if you're a
small country having all going pass over
you that your tether to is such a huge
economic boom if it's the forced orbital
ring
that you're almost like gonna say yes
right and you can find a pathway around
the planet that's going to include those
countries that agree to say yes you
build an orbital ring again not when you
get the technology for it but when you
have the you know the throughput need to
get like millions tons of material into
space a year that's when you build one
so it's building a freeway right
you don't go to Oregon to PI do the
Oregon Trail and build a freeway along
the way you go out there you know and
the old trailer wagons and then you
build a freeway generations later I
asked for space elevators again it
always comes down to can we find a
material this strong enough to make one
and graphene only really is on paper
trying to actually engineer your
graphene so that you could do it that
way is not gonna be easy
we might come with something better
though I mean until in the 1990s we
didn't think it'd be possible and do it
that way and we talked about space
elevators before that we meant more the
space towers and it was based on
compressive strength like diamond then
we've suddenly find buckyball and then
we found carbon nanotubes and graphene
and the idea became more viable again at
the moment though I would even expect it
to be what we'd use a space elevator was
not really ideal for movie last traffic
to space Tobey Harrison asked do you
have any idea what's a ID on what dark
energy or dark matter is if you do do
you think there was any way we could use
these things for advantage I have no
special clue what dark energy is or what
dark matter is we do talk about dark
energy a bit and postponing the heat set
the universe in February as for dark
matter
I do tend to favor being wimps weakly
interacting massive particles but I have
no special insights on that you're not
getting a free cosmologists as to how to
use them to our advantage the most
obvious advantage of dark matter is that
it is weakly interacting so you can find
something that interacts with it you can
build yourself a scoop and if you have
something like an artificial black hole
a black hole stole ship you could scoop
that Dark Matter into the ship and use
as fuel source very good one same if you
can manipulate at all you can use as
cheap matter to put the center of like
shell Ward's
or feed into black holes for power so
ask the dark energy if we don't find out
where it's coming from is a wall it
could somehow tap that there you go
space why aerospace ask have you thought
about looking at the potential for
biotechnology catastrophes gene therapy
viruses that spend DNA nanobots release
in the public etc yes and we actually do
talk about those in the app so I mention
a little bit ago DNA manipulation living
living beans generally though I do not
worry about custom-tailored viruses you
say well this guy's gone and created
Ebola no a Super Bowl or I can kill
everybody for somebody to do that they
have to be at the top of their game and
of biotechnology and because somebody
else come by an engineer something's
gonna kill it off whatever they're
creating has to be better than what he
else can create to counter it and if
you're a lone terrorist group doing that
and it's absolutely a very small one
even they got the Nobel Prize we know
for that that topic in your pocket to
build this thing it's very unlikely they
could spread that virus create that
virus in a way that's going to prevent
anyone from killing yet who has that
same level of technology and the whole
world's resources drawn so I don't tend
to worry about viruses as a custom-made
viruses a way of doing massive damage to
humanity there are other biotechnology
catastrophes are possible though and
again it's like with grey goo for
instance or the DNA could be Onan about
equivalent uh green goo when all you pee
happened this planet several times
someone's gotta made this and Scott out
of laminate goes crazy it can't
replicate infinitely fast they're all
limitations based on physics on how
quickly you can do this and somebody was
able to make that can also make the
technology for little machines that go
in and kill those other little gray goo
machines so I don't really worry about
those
catastrophes running out of play that
I'll based on something stupid like a
virus or gray goo nanobots your
biotechnology catastrophes or usually
something that's done too fast so cause
like an ecological disaster and arguably
the cases on GMO crops or the classic
Khan Noonien Singh from Star Trek
example where you've made all these
genetic supermen and they trying to take
over the planet
okay last question for the day
Eric poll asks do you think that with
satellite internet becoming more
available it will become harder for
governments to regulate internet
practices and all connection
interceptions at risk I think your
biggest concern about satellite internet
if it was open to everybody is that you
see one of two things potentially
happening one those countries that do
not want you know that available to
other people might demand and we made
unavailable there and people might say
yes or two they might shoot those
satellites down it's not how to shoot
satellites down well just threaten to do
so people to you know agree to not
broadcast on your country but the third
option is that I wasn't gonna save that
one third option Oh denial of service if
you've got a connection coming in over
your area that's you know sail right by
the savers if you're trying to broadcast
radio into an enemy country they can
just jam the connection you know they're
gonna have supercomputers and
connections they can run to just
satellites overhead it's saying hey I'm
Wi-Fi and so a hundred million
government computer connections
establish and just take up all the
bandwidth so in that regard it would
certainly be nice to say that it will be
harder and harder for the passive
regimes to limit internet access but
your I think would be very easy for them
to figure out ways to potentially do
that so one can hope but again those are
some examples of how they can prevent
people from doing that all right so we
already cover the episodes we're going
over on the break and so we are going to
be seen over again next Thursday for I
believe our next episode is time travel
which BNC one and I will have
conspiratorial aliens on the 9th and
then a special episode on on the Sunday
after that the 12th for previous oily
release of could technology developed
without file until then we're gonna go
and close out for today thank you for
all your questions and if I missed yours
feel for you put it in the comments
below and I'll try to get to it sometime
too later today anyway thank you for
joining us and we'll see you on Thursday
so that wraps up today's livestream Q&A
if you had a question we didn't get to
or another came to mind feel free to put
that in the comments on the video and
it'll be back later this evening to
answer them you can also pop in to our
Facebook with science and futurism with
Isaac allthough to discuss topics with
like-minded individuals or any of our
other forums thanks again for joining us
today and we'll see you Thursday
