good afternoon everyone and welcome to
our live stream q a here on sfia and as
usual we're joined today by my co-host
and lovely wife sarah faldorful who will
be reading your questions off as you get
them into the chat where our mods will
find them and put them in if you want to
increase the odds your chat's going to
get answered try to put it into a
reasonably concise and grammatically
correct version when you put up there in
the chat window so with no further ado
let's go ahead and get started
well we've got some great questions
today and i just finished our snack
because of course we have to eat
beforehand so
we have sinji and maya still helping us
and the first question is from the wise
ninja and he wants to know what is
today's topic today's topic i mean i
guess today's topic you know i got one
up on the screen that was just popping
up uh today's topic is the live stream
now there's something week's topic uh
let's see we just had the episode what
was this week's episode
you know i write them months in advance
that i turn them into videos weeks early
and then just minor edits so it's
sometimes hard to remember but probably
appropriately uh it's going to be
staying satan's spaces because the
episode is coming up on this day
i thought for a minute we stumped you
with the first question you have a logan
from the isdc conference that's the yelp
right so a very nice guy there so that's
this of course episode and of course we
just had the episode the fourth space
settlement which is up on the screen
right now coincidentally all right so
we'll go ahead and go to the next
question from canon fighter 43 thank you
for your super chat
the european space agency announced
plans to develop orbital solar panel
orbital solar power satellites what can
be done to win the support of skeptics
and critics
um you know i started off as one of
those skeptics so it's it's uh
when i was a kid i well
when it comes to always being scientific
well the first place i go is how do i
make a weapon out of this thing and
what's neat about space-based solar
power is so easy to turn to a death ray
uh and so i never really liked the idea
of space say solar power but then
maybe a few months we actually did the
episode on on powerbase satellites in
2018 i think it was um you know i found
it was something to do with on the
images and graphics that chris harland
who kind of explained why that was
actually really really safe and looked
into it more uh with another friend and
it was like wow this is actually very
easy to set up so it is not
automatically a death rate or you have
some installation you could easily turn
into it that way
in almost every discussion but that's
that's the two things you got going on
there about three
there are three challenges you have with
space based solo and once you really
want to work with it one nobody trusts
solar power right now we're moving on
that a little bit but solar power has a
bad reputation for being that thing that
the like fusion is always on the horizon
only we had it and it's not profitable
yet
and we're kind of getting that point
where it is good now but there's still a
lot of a lot of time like on people just
not trusting your kind with electric
vehicles the second is space nobody ever
really trusts things we put in space
it's hard to repair them it's incredibly
expensive
and then of course the third one is how
do i not make a weapon out of this those
are the three things you're trying to
talk with for folks on this about you
don't have to trick them you just tell
them you know what the facts are on
things like this and usually they'll be
a lot more confident they just need more
information and that's the one to
to use it with and the other will say if
we really want to get into space what we
need is some sector of the economy
that's just great because tons of money
that can you have all the knock-on
effects of things around it being built
up taking advantage of that and
the space economy could do well to have
a multi-trillion dollar industry
suddenly arrived there and one of those
is industry is power the power sector is
that big so that's the thing to keep in
mind for that i think it's a great
observation though that a lot of times
the challenge isn't whether or not you
can do something as much as it is
whether or not uh there's critics or
skeptics or people who
are not going to support it actually
happening yeah i think that is always
the problem is you you get people who
also have their their preferred ones
they they're all focused on and you know
my own answer towards energy which is
very you know
very surface level is you cannot have
too many areas of research you improving
on you know you might just waste money
you gotta have standards and ben smokes
a responsibility but the more types of
energy you're looking into the better
so the next question is from dara cloak
thank you for your super chat hi isaac
how likely do you think it is that
humans are the only intelligent
civilization in the milky way oh i'd say
probably about well let's see
um i caught 50 50 because the reason is
all the logic and evidence we have for
the show says probably not but it's kind
of working on the assumption that our
basic scientific concepts are that
solidly correct right now right
if you're trying to figure out what the
status of the galaxy was in the 1850s
you have a little bit of evidence
indicating that the planet might be very
old and that stars might be kind of old
and it doesn't actually work out very
well when you run the numbers on that
without fusion without cosmic expansion
specifically uh you have a view of the
universe that's got paranoxis in it like
orbital's paradox same as the fermi
paradox it doesn't seem to fit the
available data
right now i would say that the fermi
paradox has about a 50 50 chance of
being at zone 2 where we're just missing
something so critically vital right
that throws everything out the window
kind of like those logic puzzles that i
was getting right all except for the one
clue that solved the whole puzzle you
missed one of them and this is why we we
audit
gologic puzzles to make sure they all
correct
don't clap
i like my logic puzzle but i have had
two puzzles in the last 24 hours that i
got one clue
and i got stuck with only half of it it
it's hard to go back and and actually
that's that i will i will hijack your
point though it's hard to go back
sometimes when we're looking at a lot of
scientific concepts and say
i know there's an error in here what of
my core assumptions do i need to to
replace and sometimes you have to go all
the way back to start and go back
through again and that's that's horrible
it's it's horrible to do that but it's
so necessary for some of these concepts
so where the former paradox concerned
i'd say if our current data is right if
if the current view of the universe is
right then the odds of there being other
intelligence in this galaxy are
basically zero right
uh with the exceptions of things where
they're kind of pan galactic eg the
program was gone et cetera things don't
in this galaxy because they're
everywhere right uh alternatively if our
fundamental concept of the universe is
wrong and i'd say that's probably a 50
50 chance right now so there you go 50
50. point for bots
christian corello thank you for your
super chat what are some of your
favorite spaceships in sci-fi
why
and can you imagine humanity trying to
build a working version of any of them
in real life
um
you know one of the episodes i think it
might be
no it's not up there because i just got
to meet the afterburner today um
one of the episodes we have coming up is
called uh can you own your own personal
spaceship
um and that was a fun one to ride
because it's you know the thing we all
want is to have our own spaceship and
for some people that's like the
millennium falcon or it's the serenity
from firefly um
others as i want to be the captain of
the enterprise type of thing um
my personal favorite would probably be
you know a rogue trader from 40k because
you have a ship that's like miles long
and has crew of thousands of minions and
you get to go all sorts of other places
yeah so
um i i love the the gigantic trading
ships you see in some of the some of the
states that have uh you know kind of
more of a
i'd say more of an age of sale fee or
sometimes the way the the stories go but
if i had to pick a personal spaceship i
wanted to own that would probably be it
but yeah
there are so many cool ones out there
not the strong will from alien though
they're not not that [ __ ] i think i'd
settle for an airplane
that's a good starting point
reverend rv mars being smaller has the
largest mountain a super earth should
have smaller mountains both scenarios
should be profoundly poor hydrological
systems is earth's hydrological system a
great filter
quite probably i mean that's one of
those ones that could possibly get its
own episode at some point in time that i
never thought of phrasing it that way if
it's a good one
um you know we tend to think you know
i'm gonna get super earth everything's
bigger there
and so you don't have bigger continents
on a planet like that you could but you
wouldn't be very neat and the insides
almost always be deserts right
um it's it's hard to actually keep a
good system you know change of moisture
for instance stuff like that uh on a
super earth you probably have more
erosion more gravity pointing stuff down
on a smaller planet you give away
gigantic volcanoes because it's being
jettisoned out much faster
and when there's no air there's no
erosion when there's no water there's
much less erosion uh when your planet
spins faster there's more weather and
more erosion so and we're thinking about
it we say well a super earth would think
they would have bigger continents and
bigger mountains and but no probably not
whereas places like mars
they could be you have a plant that
looked like another young mountain but
we have asteroids that we think in the
sphere but they got a big like here's a
sphere and the mountain sticking out
like that that's common with asteroids
cosmic arc do you ever think that the
solar system will be colonized so that
are so colonized that moving between
planets moons and orbital habitats will
be as casual as moving to another
country on earth yeah absolutely
i would actually be easier that doesn't
mean it'd be easier to get from say
pluto to mercury um but in a fully
colonized system uh even though the
density you know we'd say with dyson
soils people are afraid wouldn't
everything be so close together with
crash i said well actually the
population density of a fully populated
dyson swarm even though it's a billion
times what we have now is still lower
right it's very low we have a few
thousand people in value in the size of
this planet however there's no there's
no air drag you could have straight
tethers between things too things could
just pull on and things can get around
moving kilometers per second between
those but for ridiculously tight amounts
of energy less than you take to drive
down the road the convenience store and
so in that context
um it would be a lot easier to move
around plus and this is the big one the
places themselves can move around you
know you can move your space habitat if
you don't like your neighbors
sounds like your mic might be a little
hot is my mic hot that's what it says so
while you're fixing that i have a
long question here from albert jackson
good afternoon isaac and sarah starting
college three weeks ago got me thinking
with coming advances in digital
communication vr etc
would future schools and physical
buildings still make sense
also what are your thoughts on the
upcoming launch of artemis tomorrow p.s
it is great to be back here missing two
live streams in a row is simply too much
welcome back outboard i don't know that
fixed the mic or not i can kind of see
it down on the screen here but this is
one of the problems when you have shows
though live streams is almost like we do
live streams regularly you know i think
if you have your favorite youtuber that
live streams daily there is always
somebody writing the audio i do not know
how we could have had microphones longer
than cameras as the microphones that are
always the hard part but there's so many
little things like you glance around i
can see like the light reflecting off my
uh
your ceiling light off my glasses for
instance there's too many things to try
to keep in mind while you're also trying
to keep people's questions in mind which
is why i have no idea what i would ask
well the important part is that he's
back to school and that he is back with
us so
actually had a question if we just go
past that he did
his question was
first
with whether or not a physical school
building was still going to be necessary
in virtual reality and digital
communications age yeah i think i think
the answer would be that
much like radio or tv and using those
examples again um you will have these
things still around a lot but no i mean
i think and i would say probably when
you see the most stock going away so
probably a lot of the universities
they're not going to disappear they're
never going to go away completely uk
which will still be around like a year
as i'm sure but uh you know you have so
many facilities are going to start
switching to
cell life formats because while it has
become something of a light of passage
like buying a car to go out to college
for a lot of people
that is a huge expense a huge amount of
time and and often to be out away from
your home in a very strange alien place
so much easier to be able to do that in
your local community by just doing more
stuff online
or virtually in your own preferred
virtual reality or university and i
think that is absolutely where we'll see
these things going he also wanted to
know your thoughts on the upcoming
artemis launch tomorrow
vic was crossed
i i have a poster move that i've never
discussed launches
before they happen you know i don't want
to jinx them potential launches very
scientific yeah
withering liberal says how much
turbulence would one expect to feel
during a gravity assist or gravity
breaking
um
do you say turbulence yes
i i was thinking about that kind of like
maybe it's
how you're getting turbulence on an
airplane and they want to know if you'd
be feeling that when you're breaking or
okay that's yeah using it gravity
assisted
in the vacuum um you know as an example
gravity for the most part very evenly
distributed too most of things that like
shake us around uh you can cause things
like that it's because the force is not
evenly distributed or reacting um we
have a amount of energy no change
between the earth and the sun and the
sun in the moon or the earth and the sun
that dwarfs anything like the amount of
energy that goes off between the planets
over their whole lifetime for sunlight
but we don't barely feel that because
gravity is such an even force there's a
little friction around it just a little
bit for tidal heating uh so generally
speaking with gravitational maneuvers
you know you're not going to feel
virtually anything
all right we have a uh super chat here
from miami's last capitalist thank you
very much what might be the timeline of
the transhuman
of transhumanism versus space
colonization
such as will we have cyberpunks on mars
direct to brain virtual reality while
traveling in space
digital immorality
immortality i'm sure
i normally wear a lapel mic too there's
a boom mic right up here but uh it was
hot marking so i just yanked it off
today it's in the corner over there um
so
i gotta stop going off tangents i think
the question is hi mo you forgot what
the question was again
uh it was about whether or not we'd have
digital immortality on mars there was
more of that question i'm sure of that
well that's a good starting point
it wasn't it was miami's last capitalist
oh his name is molof though that's oh
okay hi merv
uh you you recognize folks after a long
period of time
says what might be the timeline of
transhumanism versus space colonization
um i think that you'd see transhumanism
kind of rolling completely separate to
to i mean we tend to think of us
together in some way we tend to think
well you surely you have more transhuman
folks off on these colonies where they
could you know do all this cybernetic
augmentation
um
and i think there would be some
correlation here just because you tend
to have folks to be a little bit more
tech oriented but for instance it's more
likely in my eyes that uh an amish
community might decide to go buy a no
deal sonar in the future to get away
from earth then you know necessarily
stay here on earth and try to deal with
them he's already here so i think you'd
have a lot of folks who might decide to
leave because they did not like
technology as much as because there was
a great place to try new technology so
he was also saying
uh such as will we have cyberpunks on
mars direct-to-brain virtual reality
while traveling in space or digital
immortality by jupiter
by jupiter okay
no um cyberpunk genre as a whole i hope
never really does happen because of
course there's i mean i love
i love me blade runner shadowrun and um
william gibson's nomads or you know or
my personal favorite um snow crash by
neil stevenson best of the cyberpunk
books in my opinion but um
i don't really want to live in that
future and i hope this isn't the one
that actually materializes it's very
dystopian um
i think that we would see brain
augmentation like actual brain chips
before we have people living on mars
unless we're really stressed you have to
be like those six people we send on that
first boat who would have living there
apparently i could make more
so dee craig and wants to know in a
world with no aging would language
changes slow down otherwise people and
they're still alive great great whatever
grandparents might not understand each
other and that's a really good question
too because i actually have no idea you
can argue it both ways
the same question comes up with a
society that is uh more long-lived tend
to be
slower to change overall with many
things right you know is it a more
conservative society about you know uh
cultural changes new music do these
things slow down right
and my actual guess is not really right
um
people get set in their ways and enjoy
their life kinda if you talk to anybody
who's 50 60 years old they will often be
irritated by changes around them but
still actually engaged in or acting
involved in or even very participatory
with other new changes going on so on
the one hand yes you give it a breaking
force because people aren't necessarily
making up new wars often that change
into being you know this this this
generation slang is next generation's
webster's dictionary um but at the same
time i think you would still have a lot
of change just because
people have been around a long time are
you know going to still be interested in
innovation
so maybe you covered this in your mental
health episode coming up
this week but scooter wants to know as
virtual reality technology advances do
you think that a hollow addiction as
depicted in various star trek series
will become a legitimate diagnosed
condition um
with a caveat that i'm not really sure
because because that is not my field i'm
not sure if they'd actually give
something like that if it did happen so
i'm sure it will happen if that would
end up as a sort of like dsm five you
know six or twenty it ended up his own
entry or something that was so
classified on an existing thing
um with that caveat oh yeah absolutely
you know um
we've had people get addicted to the
video games for what 50 years probably
now but certainly at least 40. or
virtual reality now it's getting there
now yeah but uh vr turned out to be a
lot less addictive because it's been
rolling for like three decades we all
expect it to be the thing but it's been
so slow to start in so many ways but
many of us who are my age we have the
nintendo thumb still where you can like
push those two little buttons really
fast i won't buy a console system
anymore i haven't bought since xbox 360
came out because i
don't want to lose all my free time
during other video games
you know uh there was a couple of video
games i do play all things like the
early 2010s that i'll play for like 15
minutes because that's how i wanted to
get one of them again otherwise i'd have
no free time to write episodes or do
live um that's by the way feel free to
do video games as perfectly legitimate
hobby just
obviously like anything else in life
keep a little bit more strained if you
want to have any free time for other
things in life
um like life
but
but
um will these things sound as addictions
yeah absolutely would a holodeck be
addictive oh good god yeah i mean you
know it's like reality at that point in
time becomes the thing you don't really
feel like i spend much time in
why would you not be in a holodeck when
you could still have everything cool
around you your own tailored virtual
space or office uh and it's to do your
normal job you know you're in the
factory in the factory conveyor belt
it's going through
uh your holodeck environment which might
be a beach somewhere with more
interesting people than your fellow
factory workers and why not the
coordination on that thing would allow
that of course the point is that is that
it's not going to uh
you know it's not going to really be
necessary to your factory to kind of
vibrate that's that little technology
but there you go
um star trek looks at it a lot in some
very interesting ways more in voyager
you got the original veg barkley
episodes on that they're all fascinating
but voyage looks more with a doctor i
think and then there was a
it was a series written by william
shatner maybe ghost written by him uh
and after the star trek generations
movie come out where he is like
resurrected and fights the borg which
it's it's a bit of a mixed quality level
but they actually
have a lot of things they discuss in
there about uh weird things you'd expect
to see with uh virtual reality holodecks
like the entire bridge being a holodeck
just because you can change interfaces
so much more easily and i think that's
that's an interesting one the idea that
when star trek would have their office
space as a holiday so
welcome back isaac bradeau what do you
think of max tegmark's mathematical
universe hypothesis
i
to avoid going off of my personal rants
about string theory
i like the model as a basic concept i
like the whole idea of multi-level you
know universe concepts for
classification
but
it seems like i like string theory as a
basic concept i tend to feel that we are
not going to find the answers to our
physical reality
via math i feel like math is how we
check available data with these things
and i voice sometimes that
math-based conclusions about the
physical universe where there's no
actual data or evidence
because we're doing that because we
don't have that data can often lead us
onto some bad paths that are hard to
conform
and so you know we don't have that data
if we did we would do it that way i'm
not knocking the folks who are doing
that but i tend to worry about getting a
little bit too
worked out to the point to become
confident that exists and so you might
have some system that looks like the old
retrograde orbits of the planets they
did a little circles that so you've been
canonized by the math and numbers
without any data
um and that tends to be aware of things
like string theory or multiverses a lot
that said they're beautiful models i i
like them they might very well be true
but
there's not a lot of date on the back of
that approach in my opinion
alexander potacev thank you for your
super chat what is the best way to learn
general and special relativity
i think i need to find like a new
antihistamine i'm
allergies today but um
the rags special relativity is the easy
one to learn right
general relativity
you make a decision going in and it
actually is it's
this is one of those examples i poke
people out a little bit because a lot of
times the explanations people give for
special relativity fall into two camps
the incorrect one someone gives who
doesn't actually know what they're
talking about and it's kind of like oh
it doesn't work very well and just
trying to push on so it never makes
sense to people and then there's the one
that is
um
overly technical uh and just not well
suited for it so the person's just not
getting a very good explanation um when
it comes to special relativity the key
thing to understand learning it uh you
know it's not that hard of a concept but
it gets this alkane
flavor to it is that everything we know
about velocity says that it's a distance
divided by a time how fast you're going
is how far you traveled in what period
of time
you know
d divided by t
the weird thing that we discovered
towards the end of last last century and
actually it's about 60 miles down the
road here at case western was the speed
of light
always gets measured the same everywhere
no matter how we tried to measure it
from whatever angle whatever relative
position versus a you know baseball
you're throwing with going faster out of
the car and someone was standing next to
the car that was not moving
it kept getting measured the same speed
and so he said how can that be you
cannot possibly have something really
the same speed for different observers
and different frames of reference that
wouldn't make sense frame of reference
being are you standing still or you're
on top of a car that's moving by et
cetera
and we said well if the velocity is
staying the same then the distance or
the time has to change
that's the key one if something is
moving the same speed even though it
cannot possibly be moving the same c
from a different angle like that then
either the distance or the time has to
be altering and so you get that time
time slowing down or distance shrinking
that is special relativity the rest is
just the equation the equation is a
little bit algebra but not too heavy
right that tells you how much it does
but the equation doesn't tell you what
it does it tells you how much it does it
that's what's happening the velocity of
light is constant
and we have to realize from that it
tells us something new about the
universe that distance or time
themselves can actually shrink depending
on your perspective where you're at how
fast you're moving generality takes that
one step further and says
mass and energy and gravity can make the
same effect happen not just your speed
of motion but things like acceleration
of gravity can do it that one the math
is way harder for it to actually
calculate with that problem with general
relativity the concept very easy
acceleration gravity mass also slow time
or distance too
but the calculations are really horrible
kyle musgrave says hi isaac hi sarah i
finally caught up with all the
chronology thank you so much for amazing
content
can i ask your opinion on the vata's
world series you have never mentioned it
i'm not sure i can even think about i
know the uh thinking the author's name
is elizabeth i'm sorry viata's war
series does that help it well it's very
familiar but i can't seem to pull it up
right now
i will come back to that later
next question fates end hi isaac if
faster than light isn't a thing
then could the time it takes light to
travel be a solution to the fermi
paradox
could it be no light or signal could
have gotten to us yet since their
development
through the power of google i was right
it was somebody whose name started with
elizabeth it's elizabeth moon series and
i i've only read the first book or two i
liked it but i never really followed up
that much
um what was the actual question right
there
would you like me to repeat the question
prior to this or this one i'm going to
switch the camera out of here because it
glared at me
you said you weren't going to switch the
camera so i glared at you
so you want me to repeat the phase end
question question
hi isaac if faster than light isn't a
thing
then could the time it takes light to
travel be a solution to the fermi
paradox could it be no light or signal
could have gotten to us yet since their
development no and i think this is this
is the big issue on that one is as fast
as light is it's slow compared to the
vast timelines of the universe in the
galaxy
however as as slow as time is at that
scale
it's still really fast compared to the
timelines of plants or star wars living
the reality is that it's only been a you
know light that leads from one side of
the gas to the other only eats on a
thousand
years and you're thinking about you know
civilizations lasting for millions of
years or evolving over millions of years
in that kind of construct then there's
no real reason why you wouldn't already
have signals coming in from other
galaxies let alone
that's one of the things we've looked at
more in the well throughout the 40
paradox series so we'll go over those
points in a lot more detail
just a bill 02
now that we're heading back to the moon
what do you think of building an
electromagnetic railgun launch system to
on the moon to build or launch vehicles
built on the moon mostly from lunar
material i love it
now probably not most even little
materials actually build the the thing
that would be nice but there i i think
that that one i'm a little bit more
pessimistic than we are doing early on
maybe in terms of just like bulk mass
like me away from your pylon material
but uh we have a nice model for using
some of the episodes that ian like uh
ian long did um deduction from light
that i love using on there it's just
kind of a zoom through a moon base that
launches off there but um
i love the idea of a lunar rail gun
that's just the best place to put one
for you helping build up the uh the
area around earth and even a lot of the
colonies that we want to put up there
this changes the game a lot so very much
in favor but that's definitely to me
more like a uh
you know that's not the thing you do day
one of colonizing moon that's probably
20 years down the road
sanobello could it be possible to send
matter or energy through a wormhole
without sending information
yeah uh and this is something that kind
of gets well imagine for the moment uh
the big bang was a one-horned matter
which is flowing out from some of the
universe this is not how that works but
that's kind of your idea of kind of a
white hole you would have a very similar
effect to a big bang and you just have
hot material coming out super hot
material that had no data to it or super
cold i supposed to it doesn't make a
difference but the point is it's all
scrambled it's random static right
if you have something like that coming
out and you looked at it and said wow
there's a pattern here that would be
problematic because it would imply you
could violate causality but potentially
if you had a wormhole that allowed you
to move things inside this universe as
between two universes but it could but
it's scrambling that doesn't violate
causality then because you are going to
be pushing information from one place to
another but the information is not
making the journey beyond the trivial
fact that they would the world will
exist right
it's like with quantum entanglement and
spooky action distance you're not
actually finding out anything you can't
send the information that way and a warm
ball like that would still be useful
because you could use it as a really
good spaceship drive you know imagine
you've got a one hole you could just
chuck matter out the back that was
coming out of superheating hydrogen or
something like that
um as it reformed from constituent
particles uh a very good engine very
good power plant but
that wouldn't have any value for space
travel in that context except for the
fact that it would let you push ships
with very free energy and rocketry as
opposed to faster lines i think was that
the signal we're going to break i think
we're going to break all right so we'll
get to more your questions in a few
minutes and we'll see you soon
so we'll be on break for a few minutes
to grab a drink and a snack and while
we're waiting you can get more questions
in the chat for our moderators if we
don't get to your question today you can
post it in the comments section of the
live stream and i usually get to most of
those a day or so after at least for a
quick answer some need longer ones
though like this one from last month's
comment section ng simple asked would
you consider populations of autonomous
self-replicating machines to be a form
of life also could said machines evolve
this is something we've talked about in
episodes like low-tech culture of
civilizations and our void ecology and
space whales episode and so did gregory
benford in his galactic center soccer
series but this is the basic notion a
self-replicating machine is presumably
one designed with some task beyond just
basic survival that's the task or tasks
we want it to perform once it is in the
self-replication game it can potentially
be a mutating though
this is not an absolute as we looked at
before there are data integrity methods
and algorithms like checksum that you
can build into machine schematics and
reproduction and it's not too much extra
effort to make a mutated reproduction of
that data the machine's dna less likely
not to occur even for something
reproducing the field whole galaxies and
over the lifetimes of stars
still if that's not there if mutation
can occur in that machine equivalent to
dna which i tend to just call mna for
lack of something better then a new
dynamic occurs the machine has a creator
made purpose and now has the identical
evolutionary ones of survival of self
and species that we do
by default that purpose is not
contributing to making it more likely to
live long and prosper so to speak so
mutations that change or diminish that
purpose aren't interfering with
survivability while any that make it
more about self-survival and
reproduction will promulgate more just
like with life on earth you now
effectively have an amoeba that divides
or reproduces and mutates just made out
of silicon or whatever and that should
lead to diversity including sibling
cannibalism or cousin cannibalism
resulting in predator prey cycles and so
on like big sturdy slow or immobile
solar collectors that stored energy and
got robbed of it by some equivalent of
herbivores in other words a whole new
ecosystem which might look very
interesting on a grey good planet where
you might have solar-powered upper
layers and no or dead layer or survivion
marine snow equivalents as material
descended toward the bottom and an
eventual layer of magma
you might have the reverse as a natural
dyson swarm around a star with bits
drifting out from nanosphere of light
collectors acting as marine snow
now where we draw the line to call this
life is tricky and same for evolution
the two are not automatically synonymous
again we might program a self-replicator
to be non-mutating that is already
within our technological skill set
though would generally make them slower
to replicate
i'm not sure how much mutation something
needs to qualify as alive and is pretty
likely humans will apply this themselves
in the future some possibly opting only
for chosen mutations and having nanobots
run through them killing off or
correcting mutated dna off the template
they were born with or paid a lot of
money for or both
also a machine might not be
self-replicating but only a produce a
step below itself big machine makes
hundreds of smaller machines which are
factories for smaller machines and torn
or in a reproduction circle your bigger
factory bots are unable to replicate
themselves but two or three unrelated
factory bots that produce different
chains could team up to make another of
those bots as something triggered by a
complex supply chain that was running
low due to insufficient factory bots of
this type this is still an ecosystem and
has some parallels to our own but is
quite alien indeed more alien than
actual aliens who naturally vote might
be
one other quick caveat a machine's
additional purpose the thing we wanted
to do and give it self-replication in
order to do it better might be survival
related too like mining some necessary
or collecting power or being part of a
reproductive circle and in such cases
those purposes would tend to erode
slower from mutation as they are
survival related and a good engineer
might aim to make the robots task
survival related in that way as an extra
safety measure
anyway great question so let's get back
to some more of your questions
and we're back so
next question
well welcome back ed the first question
in this part is going to be from indigo
hi to isaac and the sfia team do you
happen to know whether dark matter
models predict if dark matter is
predicted to accumulate in planetary
stellar or galactic cores thanks
not very much
we only say no not at all but
there might be some because it depends
on which model of dark matter you're
looking at if there is one that allows
dark matter to interact with the
universe around it or with each other
you would still get a certain amount of
limited friction it's just a little bit
if they don't interact at all then
they'll be known at all right that's
essentially how that works out but you
really don't get much clustering as a
result except the galactic scale because
these things still have a speed and
that's where i say they're cold dark
matter because they're not moving fast
enough to escape entire galaxies
gravitational pull so they clump up
around a galaxy a bit
so we have a super chat from name not
provided
around what year approximately do you
think we will achieve a post-scarcity
civilization if ever or do you think
humanity will destroy itself first
do they actually not have a name or was
it just uh that was actually name not
provided
thank you name not provided thank you
name not provided
um i would guess that well
where you want to say something is post
scarcity is so debatable for me it has
that you know when when do the vast
majority of people basically get to i
would say if most people could live an
upper middle class lifestyle as it is
right now in the united states generally
speaking when we're saying prosperity
options et cetera and that was
sustainable where most people on the
planet of 8 billion people could do that
and do that sustainably in the sense of
we didn't have to worry about running
out of you know cool next year or
something like that or a century
juvenile whatever it is um that would be
to me a post that would be post scarcity
um because at that point you have that
level of buttons for pretty much
everything that's a basic need for life
um we're not there yet as a result so
now you could make an argument that
we've actually been post scarcity for um
decades now especially in the first
world but it kind of comes down to where
you're drawing the line how many
exceptions count you know how many
people starving to death there's a you
know do you have to have in the
civilization where you don't really
account for scarcity anymore and i would
say that it'd be very hard to in my mind
to say that we've been post scarcity
outside the first world uh anywhere and
even inside the forcible just because
it's not
not something we could really keep doing
indefinitely currently
a sun 20 years maybe
why not
a-sun dead says if you were
to take one thing from physics and
incorporate it into a tg
ttrpg what would it be
tt ogb
ttrp oh tabletop rpg okay
i just think those rpgs still huh i was
actually playing one yesterday in
buffalo that's what we were up to so we
were doing pathfinder second edition uh
with little bits of elements pulled in
from the
white wolf system exalted very fun um
if i could take any science fiction
incorporated into a tabletop physics
physics
i mean that's what you do all the time
but
i would say probably
i tend to like fancy settings not sci-fi
anyway just because they tend to get on
my nose the one that would be is for me
is always
scale right people only think about
things like conservation of energy and
there's the other one that people
remember concepts like conservation of
energy and scale you know that's uh
that's the big ones that bring almost
any tabletop game
danielle kravowski thank you for your
super chat isaac from which source do
you take ideas for your videos and where
do you work in real life
at this desk really um
you know we're coming up on the eighth
anniversary of the first episode of the
show and um
for the first couple years it was a
complete hobby that i was in you know
out of pocket on so i think i spent
thousands of dollars running the channel
for no good reason and i thought i got
talked into taking on like a patreon
account and then you know it's a couple
of sponsors audible and i was our first
one brilliant and i'm very grateful then
talking into that um and you know we do
some ads too because
youtube kind of forces you to uh to be
honest
but
um
i would say that
probably around year or three
if it kind of stopped being
a hobby or even a hobby that was
sucking up all my time but wasn't my job
and became my actual job job now outside
that i also work with the board of
volunteers you don't walk in the world
and i'm the chairman of the board of
elections i go in there for about
once a week to check on things because
like um it's it's not the same as like
we have a director on deputy director of
the point it's like a school board so
it's kind of a school board position in
that context we oversee it and make sure
that all the policy is in place to make
sure that works well i also make their
training videos for it because i i
i have the software equipment and time
for it so we make the best training
videos in the state which means the best
in the country because nobody runs
elections like ohio does and i mean that
too i mean they do run it better than
anybody else
say otherwise but you'll be wrong
um
and so um you know that's
the other main thing that i do in life
besides this is elections so i enjoy it
it's a hobby in some ways too now
and our farm and our excitement yes
additional little uh i also own a farm
which i'm also sitting on i'm in my
house right now by the way this is where
i walk at so um there's a farm out
behind the window here there's a tractor
right over there
and uh yes right over there um
we keep bees we farm we have a rental uh
we don't know what house into so and a
garden a lot of the alcohol and we have
a lot of projects going on we stay busy
stay that's a good thing to do by the
way stay stay busy it keeps you active
it always gives you something new to be
learning
all right are you um done hypothesizing
on that question
pontificating pontificating i i
thought you were coming up with
additional theories there as you were
going on and on
okay so bike ride after this i feel like
i'm going for a bike ride after the try
to go biking
here or in virtual reality not
unfortunately
[Applause]
next question please the next question
is a super chat from nick kirko dahlias
thank you are energy or force shields
theoretically possible
we have an episode called force fields
that looks at that issue in more detail
and the answer is kind of sort of yes
mostly no
next question
christian carello again thank you for
your super chat can rings of tethered
orbital habitats around a star be
positioned at different angles one at
180 degrees one at 90 degrees etc so on
and so forth
uh i was in auburn or
around a star i'm not a star okay that i
think that there you'll be looking at
see more the the kind of well to tie
that back to the other question i
answered very very quickly uh one of the
ways you can actually put a shield
together that we look at that episode
and say well why not actually just use
an actual shield
like the old medieval style ones you got
a spaceship why doesn't have a gigantic
inflatable expandable metal shield to
block stuff with you can do something
similar around
a planet there's a defensive mechanism
you put a bunch of but you can't do a
big hollow sphere very well not one
that's got a lot of mass you want to
fall down so what you instead do would
have a lot of spinning rings and these
spinning rings aren't habitats in skates
not ring boards but they're protective
shield so they don't have to spin you
know at one g to produce the counter
gravity so you live on the inside
they're just a spinning ring so it
doesn't fall down there's an opening
ring
and a big thick opening ring and there's
one that's maybe a couple kilometers
wide or placed right behind it tilt an
angle and another another angle et
cetera until you have a big sphere
around the planet of these rings that's
a protective shield against whatever you
feel like they need to be
and you could have these sets so they'd
be more expandable right instead of
being a flat plate looks like that most
time it's scrunched up and this pops up
when you need to activate it so you see
a very tiny little sequence of beads
around the planet big long bead
bracelets around it that can suddenly
expand and turn into a gigantic shield a
whole shield that blocks a supernova
um or you know orbital involvement
that's kind of an option there the other
one of course is that what you're
suggesting is how you do a dyson
shell
a you know classic dyson sphere of the
non-classical variety where you just put
a bunch of ring words around it copted
various angles and we had that
graphically occasionally put up on the
channel for dyson spheres it shows one
like that yes that's possible it's still
a niven style ring war though so if you
want the internal gravity on it you need
a super material like he has in that
serious script and you have to stabilize
it too
malachi odor kais thank you for your
super chat thanks for your consistent
work and effort what's your opinion on
why we have research into electric
propulsion but we ignore the high power
versions
um
and then you know that's one of those
ones where if you if you ask uh five
different rocket ngos you get 25
different answers
each um
you know
i like vasamir for instance a concept
but it has a lot of a lot of work that
needs to be done to really bring it to
the even the prototyping stage really um
the biggest problem we have in all these
things is how do we manage to make the
most energy go from
you know a battery or a solar panel or a
fusion reactor or whatever is into a
particle shooting out the back of a ship
while we do that very many of them at
once so we actually get some real thrust
and without melting apart and that turns
out to have a lot of engineering
problems um and i think that that's
mostly what it is right now is that
nobody thinks they can really overcome
all those engineering problems to
produce a really good prototype when the
market really wants something that is
either gonna be good for moving you back
and forth to mars in a few months
or which could be used to very cheaply
allow station keeping on a satellite so
low power portions
roberto says are there any alternatives
to the kardashev scale and is there
another way to quantify how advanced a
civilization is i miss that full
sentence
are there any alternatives to the
kardashev scale yeah i think
we were talking about that first episode
not long ago i introduced one in there
actually the very first episode of the
show and i never brought it up again
nobody ever really seemed to use it was
perfectly a good one for kind of like
putting things together but it was more
the idea that you'd have a population
scale a technology scale and a size
scale for any given object
it was meant for measuring mega
structures so there was the various
types of generalized categories and then
there would be a component for its um
its size a component for its actual
population the component was technology
level so you could describe this a you
know a
rotating swing
size 50 population 20 uh technology
level 52 you know
um which i think i ripped right out of
travel or the rpg for the technology
levels but
um when the culture is concerned i don't
think that we really could ever put
together a better system that's why it
sticks it's that it's already out there
it's not good it's just they are because
we don't actually have any examples to
look at
how do i light up a decent taxonomy of
of civilizations of high-tech
civilizations when i have
technically one example maybe kind of
not any we don't have any advanced
civilizations because it's we don't mean
all because we have to meet all those
obviously um so
how you how do you create a
categorization of that and we do this
with things like planets or other things
and we end up having people get upset
later on we have to rename everything
our yellow dwarf star that we never call
it dwarf evol because it's not dwarf we
thought it was originally pluto which
has to get demoted as a planet to dwarf
planet because
we don't want to have another 30 or 40
of them in the solar system we have to
memorize that kind of thing so i would
say we won't have a good categorization
system for advanced civilizations do we
have
a lot of
them april van ryan thank you for your
super chat she says i love you isaac and
sarah these are my favorite shows
thank you
val also super chat says should we
first prioritize on establishing a base
on the moon rather than racing to go to
mars and is the moon
potentially artificial great content as
always
well those are two very different
questions
you know moon force versus mars force
episode um we we
i we came to the various reasons why you
might do a y or b uh as well as like
could you do an asteroid or venus air
force base and we're looking at the
first seven episode this week too
and you can make a good case for all of
them i feel like through the strong one
outside of an orbital colony around
earth is is almost always going to be um
the moon
and um
as to whether or not the moon itself is
artificial uh
yeah you know it's what you actually dig
about on these things i can't like it's
like i can't just say no it's not
because that's yes we have no evidence
that it's artificial you know in that
kind of context uh if you see the movie
moonfall obviously that was
horrible by the way i did not like that
movie but
you know it's it's got the hollow moon
thing going on that's always possible
you never know you're going to dig down
there and find a big black monolith
although c clock style either but we
just don't have any evidence to indicate
that so
thought criminal says isaac are you
personally signed up for cryonics
hmm
i am not inside me freezing my brain
it's in my will okay
he has additional questions husband
if so are you signed up at alcor the
cryonics institute or somewhere else and
if not why not so i have it in my will
to to look at the option of freezing my
brain but uh the thing is if you die
well
obviously i'm not gonna endorse any of
those particular organizations at this
time right you you go pick it and do
your own research i'll get your brain
frozen with who uh for me
right now it's not the best option for
that funds available because
most things that would kill me right now
would do it in a way that would destroy
my brain in the process or which they
wouldn't have time to get up here and do
it i'm far from any real medical aid of
that variety most of my death scenarios
will not make it very easy for me frozen
currently uh but i do think it's a
pretty good approach to uh backup as it
were so cheaper than life insurance
that's for sure especially if you're
going to fly but uh of course life
insurance is about really enjoying your
life it's more about enjoying your death
that's an interesting question is life
insurance going to be available for
people that go to outer space for
regular trips probably at a very high
premium initially yeah
i i would wonder actually that's really
good question is is what are the
insurance premiums right now for an
astronaut is that are they going to say
that it's limited to within the earth's
hemisphere
or atmosphere i mean they could really
really limit it no because you gave a
lawyer a crazy time trying to figure out
how to write that out too for the free
of my brain
yeah
moving on
as long as you stay alive that doesn't
the problem
albert jackinson what megastructures
built specifically for scientific
experiments would be useful and or
practical to build such as particulate
accelerators in space if any
what was the first chunk of that
megastructures built specifically for
scientific experiments
um useful and practical to build
supercloud is the big one you always
want me to do one of those because if
you look at those high energy particles
um
you can do one that size
gives you the power plant for it too um
for me most of what's interesting in in
low gravity and microgravity is either
building up gigantically huge space
detectors like you know a telescope
that's uh a thousand miles across you
can theoretically do something of that
in space
or it's uh chemistry and metallurgy you
know what kind of stuff can you make in
microgravity what changes in terms of
how crystals you know form in that kind
of context in that really low gravity
versus here in a gravitational
environment
was that the end that was the end of it
okay i was thinking that we are getting
a long week getting close to needing to
roll through the uh
lightning round here are you up to a
lightning round today yes okay probably
not but let's do it anyway
so 15 second answers well
that never actually happens but yes
we'll do it as quick as we can okay
miami's last capitalist thank you for
the super chat since you make a moon
episode every year 2023 should be your
rewriting of
moonfall no i don't think i really want
to do that one because i i'm not sure
how you would read
it
i'm not going to beat up on that movie
too much because it is it is a rolling
emirate film that's what you expect you
know time's up
next question victor runyon question how
do you see us dealing the loss of
species that we need to survive such as
bees
um you know the best thing to do and
this is something i occasionally get in
a little bit of trouble with some other
folks on is i like the idea of getting
dna samples of everything and their
digital dna too you get the frozen
version and then you digitize that so
you can reproduce it and print if you
had you down the road some folks will
say well doing that gives people
encouragement to go ahead and let those
species die off i say that's probably
true in a few cases but i it's kind of
like well don't don't put seat belts in
coals because that will encourage people
to drive recklessly so i feel the best
thing for us to do would be to get dna
samples with all the animals and then
try to keep them from going extinct
anyway i need a little bell because then
i can bring it when you're at the end of
your 15 seconds
night that someone was doing that when
they were flicking the little green beam
i'm going to try that next time
to miss recon b4
thank you for your super chat he says
thank you for all of your great content
thank you
bill juanchalo also a super chat thank
you for all you do oh thank you too
these are easy questions
ahsoka ventris i really appreciate how
positive you always seem about
humanity's future i wish i was the same
how do you see us getting through the
upcoming climate chaos energy issues and
population what was that name again
ahuska ventress ahsoka ventress or
yes it's like a star wars clone wars mix
of like two different name sets there
ventress and ahsoka
can tell you what was the question again
i really appreciate how positive you
always seem about humanity's future
how how do you see us getting through
the upcoming climate chaos energy issues
and population um i mean i actually tend
to think that uh population itself is
actually one thing that's going to help
us on this
if you grow too fast and you grow
dystopianly beyond what your means can
support it all that's not good that's
going to screw you up but for the most
part the more people we can throw these
problems the better right and that
usually requires a pretty good and
educated population lots of resources
for climate in general you know
obviously that's all about finding that
new power system i tend to be to me
that's find a better source of power i
also like solo meals and shades for
helping cool planets too
bill one cello hello
i can't do that
how do you see standardized time working
in the future
um i believe that the best thing we do
for that is not to have decimal time i
don't like metric time
would we use earth's year as our
calendar or maybe simplify into
something close but without stuff like
leap days i think that we probably keep
the exact same calendar we have now and
then do it locally to whatever the
actual habitat or planet was going for
internally i think that what you get is
you have the official time stamp of utc
and then on top of that you have your
time of day for describing it like it's
noon here
but that's 70 p.m you know mr gaster
could a clone sue their original if they
disliked their life you can sue people
for all sorts of reasons i don't think
that i don't think the clone be able to
do that because you can they're
effectively going to be your parent from
a legal perspective
trying to suit your parents what's been
done doesn't it makes the tv news for a
joke but people are very unsuccessful
suing their parents
andre jones thank you for your super
chat another fermi paradox question do
you think the james webb telescope will
ever detect type 2 or type 3
civilization immensity of the universe
um
i mean
if if they're there it could it could it
could see k-3s um
but uh i don't think that i'm not really
expecting that to be honest uh would it
spot a k2 a little less so dyson swarm
dyson swarms themselves are a little
harder than those unless you actually
are looking at specific star no there's
a stall there
so
christian carello thank you for your
super chat think you'll ever do a sci-fi
video speculating on aliens made of
energy the best example from sci-fi's
that i can think of are the dredge from
titan ae
i didn't like that movie
that was from this hit that's what the
animated one it was actually not that
bad but uh
um all energy beans like the q or a lot
of the other ones
probably
the thing is it's a very bad reason for
naming episodes but i always like any of
the alien episodes to have the uh you
know aloof aliens or stupid aliens or
description aliens and uh well i will
break that format occasionally i that's
usually how you get to sell me on an
episode like that is there's so many
good topics to do can you give me a
title that fits that fits the mold
i think we may have answered this one
before but we had a a suggestion from
steven mark skelov ski last time
make an episode about secret technology
and how
would future space governments keep
technology from the public
i like that one
if i can get a good title for that
he says secret technology i'm sure a lot
of you will notice we've been changing
around the thumbnails on that a lot um
we we can't squeeze too much text onto
an actual title card and then it blocks
jacob's work plus it becomes very hard
to see anyway and i love his art so i'd
like to block it we've been
experimenting with new ways of doing
that but you're still living on a title
to like five to seven wards top so if
you can think of a good way to describe
something that's short like that there's
much more chance of giving me do an
episode on i know it's a stupid basis
for it but
i'm not the reason the algorithm clicks
on those everybody else's so it's not my
fault
marvelous1000 says do you find it
offensive that i really like your accent
even though it is actually caused by an
impairment for some reason i find it so
relaxing a lot of people do it's weird i
know i have a lot of people who i listen
to to go to sleep too and relax too so
doesn't bother me apparently i do have
an accent though it's just that we
didn't really notice underneath the
speech impediment so we ground some of
the worst bits of it off and and then i
asked them well what what what is it and
they said well we discussed this as a
group of speech pathologists it's like
it's mid-atlantic and i said
mid-atlantic isn't that that fake accent
people have who are trying to pretend to
be british
i said well no it's people who travel
back and forth like new england and
england that's a real-ish accent so
what's a real-ish accent and they said
well that's what you have
well
uh you have a couple it says your
channel is a gift for optimists in a
world dominated by pessimism
anti-technological attitudes and
anti-intellectualism from both sides of
the political spectrum yes
thank you
thank you
and i think with that we will wrap up
for today
all right well thank you everybody for
joining us i'm if we didn't have a
chance to get your questions today
please go ahead and put down into the
comment section i will try to get to
some of them in the next day or so and
another one um if you did not know we
have these discussion boards over at
reddit uh which i knew uh more from uh
and facebook and discord and please feel
free to go over there and join those
forums to find other people who actually
enjoy talking about these topics and if
you want you can volunteer to help
moderate them more actual chat here for
today not today well done say so unless
your time machine you can't help us
moderate today but you can help us
moderate next month which we do mostly
out of discord and on that wonderfully
cheerful note
i need more coffee we'll see you guys on
thursday
so that will wrap us up for the day i
want to thank everyone for joining us
and again if we didn't get your question
feel free to post as a comment below and
i'll try to get to it this evening
also you can continue the conversation
at any of the forums on facebook reddit
discord or our website isaacarthur.net
thanks for joining us and we'll see you
thursday
[Music]
